which we use to map the oceans, but it shatters the minds of any cetacean creature in your shot,
which could be hundreds of miles in some cases. We're using that to map people. I'd be like mapping
your daughter with a shotgun and then say, well, it's really important that we get her blood type.
Really? How important could it be? Is it so important that we learn about the bottom of the ocean,
that we snuff life on earth? See, this is the problem. We've, we don't understand this process. We don't
realize that over a year, a forest generates an incredible amount of evolutionary benefit
that if you were to, to try to represent it in dollars, it would be more money than humans have
ever imagined in one year, any forest, like a small forest. But we'll burn that down for $50
one time. And here's what happens. First of all, we're attacking the basis of our own intelligence
and relational intelligence and unspoken intelligence, which is purposive. It's why we do things.
We're attacking all those bases in their roots. And then we're claiming to be gods. They actually
lifted us to that position. So we're sinking as we're attacking them. And our intelligence is
plummeting, which, which makes us less likely to see all this or be able to say it or know it
or do anything about it. We'll just think, you know, the more that we attack them, the smarter
we will think we are, the more machines we get, the more war we make on everything. But first,
on our intelligence, because it's based on all the living networks and their pulse,
is the source of what raises us up. So here's what I want to make really clear.
Um, for about the past 200 years, maybe a little longer, but not much longer,
we've been enough of a force that the blows we're punching into the ecosystem that now probably
thousands of times per second could be absorbed and life could survive and our intelligence
could survive. And so we had kind of a shot, you know, at actually becoming
the avatar of terrestrial intelligence. And by the way, I want to explain something.
Because we've been so interested in representations and all of our mechanical things,
we missed the game. The game of intelligence doesn't look like anything like what we're playing with
frozen things in books. It looks like the sun, it looks like shocking explosions of
almost unsurvivable leaps of just unthinkable progress that happened if we just,
if we could just shave off like a third of the representational noise in machine
nonsense and chotch keys, and they're all the little things that we mess around with instead
of our roles and instead of purpose and the intelligence of having mutually beautiful
purposes that we all agree to, because they're just, they're so amazing that no one wouldn't
agree, you know, like lift each other up. We could do that. We can all do that. That's why we came.
That's what we're all hoping for. We can do that. We've been told we can't. We think human history
means we can't. It's really just wrong. We can just do it. We can do it now. And we can do it in
ways that are so shocking that they actually let this process happen. They just allow it, right?
I'm not saying we need to do anything extra. If we'll just allow the planet to be unmolested
and pulse, it just raises us up naturally to shocking levels of evolutionary intelligence
that we've never seen. The reason is we've been chopping, we've been burning that process down
as fast as we can and building cars and tomahawk missiles and drones and, you know,
NSA surveillance sites and billions of computers and smartphones and things.
Those represent something that we've lost. The internet is actually like a Barbie doll
of terrestrial hyper cognition or, you know, the level above our intelligence so vastly that it
would burn ours to touch it. And we can, like a whale, we can kind of go, and this is what we've
been doing throughout our evolutionary history. We're touching that high-frequency intelligence
of the whole planet and we're taking tiny bits of it down and inventing technology which lowers it.
And then we rise up and touch it again and we steal some of that and it shrinks and we shrink.
And meanwhile our machines explode in their populations. You've probably heard
all kinds of arguments about human population growth problems, etc.
How many arguments have you heard about machine growth?
Machine populations. Did you hear any? Did anyone who argued against children having babies?
Excuse me. Even once arguing against them having machines.
So similarly, when we've been doing this representational game, we've been being
broken apart by it so that not only is our relationship with the planet
being used backwards against us, right? They're raising us up to attack what's raising us up.
And we think that's intelligence. That's the opposite of intelligence. And by the way,
the envelope of the planetary atmosphere reflects light. So what that means is like you're not
in your bedroom at home torturing the animals. Actually anything that reads light in all of
space knows exactly what the humans are doing because the way that light is reflected from
the envelope of our world essentially just announces it like a book. And so if anything
is stopping by and I'm not claiming that anything is, but if they are, the signal that they're
getting is, well, I'm not going to be so cruel as to make it as ugly as it is. Let's just say
it's incredibly unthinkably terrifying to any being that understands relational intelligence
because it means that the heroes become a rapist and thinks they are a god. And it's just gone haywire
and is actually in a mad attempt to burn the planet down. Meanwhile, many of their prophets
and wisest people are telling them that things are getting better or that things are okay.
And they're scared people are making paranoid fantasies that compete with the attention we
need to actually solve the simple problems with our own intelligence. All of our problems are there
with our intelligence that they're not anywhere else. So we need to go there first. How can we
become intelligent? And the way we can become intelligent is by understanding the dangers of
representation, how to leverage those into impossible evolutionary potentials, and then
just start writing those right out of that habit immediately. And it'll happen instantly. This will
be an overnight kind of change that we can leverage and make happen in a month or one year around the
world. We need to understand how biocognition works, how biorelation, biorelational intelligence
is set up. It's not a spiritual thing. It's not a religion. It has to do with things we know about
science, but mostly it's what we know about from just being alive. As animals in nature, the things
we feel and know immediately when we sense them. It doesn't require complex arguments. It doesn't
we are organs of this world the same way I'm an organ of my mother's body. I grew up inside her.
There's no other way around it. And that means all of the animals and all of the
intelligences here raise each other. There's no other way around that they're not individuals
competing. They're competing to lift one another. As soon as we realize that and realize that we
were lifted to intelligence by the incredible diversity and thriving myriad swarming intelligences
of the animal and insectival and bacterial world, as soon as we understand that we'll stop attacking
it. The moment that happens we'll stop attacking each other and we'll stop having this idea that
we're individuals in competition because we're in competition the way my fingers are in competition,
literally. We should make little pods that are intimately connected for mutually beneficial,
beautiful purposes of learning, development, growth, not material wealth, relational wealth,
the intensity, the beauty of this palm thing that we don't even count by the way you ever
notice that. One, two, three, four, five. We didn't count this because for humans with our
representational systems this doesn't much count new. It is the idea. The idea gets a lot of air
play but not much heart play. So if we keep pounding with our technological and representational
swarming, draining away the living intelligence of earth and is producing these representations
and photographs and endless little pieces of data and all new kinds of ways of story and relating
them, our minds are dying right now and our world is in grave danger. The ecosystems themselves are
in grave danger. All of the animalian bodies on the planet have been impregnated with essentially
industrial toxins that are both, they damage nervous systems which are the basis of our minds
and they damage our hormonal metabolism and make us vulnerable to all kinds of
problems. Meanwhile, the conceptual environment we live in is destroying us as individuals and as
human cultures and that's why we're fighting against collectives who are trying to crush us.
It's the same thing. We raised them up, we raised up our heroes and in a collective way the same
many animals did with us and they're trying to crush us. So we're just living out what we're
doing in the biosphere, in our own minds and in our own cultures. Now the indigenous people knew
