Hi, thanks for joining me. My name is Darren Stevenson. This is my YouTube channel. You
can find me on Facebook under my name in San Francisco on the web at wondercloud.wordpress.com
and on my own website with some relatively old material on organelle.org. There's some
interesting things there nonetheless. What I want to talk about right now is I'm actually
just wanting to sketch to myself these ideas. So please bear with me because they're informed.
I've been looking for a long time to talk about the difference between what makes mankind,
our species, either natural or unnatural since all of nature is, well, we can't really say that.
We can't really say that we're natural or unnatural since nature is everything. And yet,
it seems that we are in conflict with nature fundamentally. Now, in discussion with a friend
of mine recently, he reminded me that it's a false distinction. You can't separate out the
activity of human beings and say that that's unnatural since nature is everything and it
must include all of the activity within it. I can't escape it and pretend that you're
working from outside and he's right. He's right. We can't. But what we can do is make a subset of
nature and call that something like a biosphere. An animal's activity can be in conflict with its
biosphere in such a way that one or the other will perish if the animal doesn't change its
behavior because a biosphere like a human body is a very sophisticated network of relationships
that are anciently evolved. And they are also modernly evolving. So there's this there's this
wave sort of this pulsing rhythm of ancient development and structure. And then there's this
input of this kind of novelty, possibility feedback from current situations. This moment,
these contexts that change the meaning of those established standards as we think of them. And
so life is constantly reforging itself in the image of the direction of this moment, this context
and what we can understand as being ahead of us and behind us. Now there are ways in which time
speaks back to the future, speaks back to the past from the future. And that life is sensitive to
and can understand and vice and there are ways that the future speaks far into the past. Similarly,
now because time is not linear in the way that we imagine it, those ways are models and they're
incomplete. And organisms are more complete than models. My point really here is that
I've been looking for a model that talks about how human behavior and actually human intelligence
are against the purposes of life and intelligence. Now how could that be?
It goes against everything we believe and much of what we're taught, but it is very possible. In
fact, I believe it's a fact. It's easily demonstrable, meaning we can demonstrate it and witness it
objectively all around us whenever we want to. So let me talk a little bit about a few things.
First of all, I think if we imagine that a human conception event has occurred
and sperm are now traveling by the hundreds of thousands or millions toward the egg,
we imagine that we imagine them as as competing individuals.
But we sort of forget that they come from one individual, so to speak, who's actually the
representative of a vast ocean of people. So that individual is raised up on their work and
relationships. And this individual has impregnated a woman or is about to and then the sperm are on
the way. And we imagine that just one of them wins, that lucky individual, that sovereign king.
Actually, it's more like Robin Hood who wins. And when Robin Hood wins, the king is deposed and all
of the people are then proxied in an empty throne, an empty throne like
like the woman's womb, like the space on the page, like space itself.
Now Earth is not an empty womb. She's a living womb. She's filled. She's a strange sort of womb
whose children occur on her surface. And we like their greatest and most noble contender,
the avatar of Earth's biological history and relational dreaming.
And not not not not 3.5 billion years of life.
Because we have to multiply that by each of the individual elements
so that we could understand in this in a very simple way, if we take one person,
run them around the sun, one time on a planet, that's one life year, one human life year.
We all understand that one year. Well, when we say the earth is 3.5 billion years old,
we don't mean that. Because there wasn't one person on the earth going on.
One, two, three. There were thousands or unthinkable numbers, myriads of life forms together and all
of their relationships and all the interrelationships and all the reflections and the and the and the
and the and going around the sun each time. So just to be to make a really flat example that we
can understand easily, one person going around the sun one time is one life year of evolutionary
history. 7 billion humans going around the sun one time is 7 billion years of evolutionary history,
because they're all individuals, they all have a year of themselves of evolution. And then they
also have the magnified evolutionary effort of their relationships, right, which is really where
the money is, so to speak, evolutionarily, it's in all those relationships, because those are what
translate into changes, growth, education, especially for people like us, a species like us,
where we've translated much, if not all of our physical, not all, we've translated large portions
of our physical, what might have been physical evolution for us, and also relational evolution
for other creatures into machines and demonstrate that in a minute. And so we kind of gave up on
that we developed technologies, we've shunted our evolutionary momentum and the momentum of the
planet since we're the, we're sort of the evolutionary hero of Earth, we really are. They
lifted us up, I'll show you that in a minute. And then we shunted all that evolutionary momentum
of the planet while we assassinated them from above, by the way, with all of our machines.
We shunted that into massive spawning of technologies and little devices and ideas and
photographs and every kind of representation of excellence that we will not become, we just
refuse to be coming all together. We have sports teams, right, that compete for incredible,
like world heroism over nothing, nothing, or they went intelligence, a future for mankind,
a planet we could survive on. Did they stop one whale death? Did they save one prairie?
No, but, but thousands of fans will kill each other in the aftermath over
what exactly? The representations that we love so much. The automobile that sleeps in a warm
garage every night while 50 children die starving and the automobile is worth enough to feed them
all for the rest of their lives. Really? All right. I think I understand. So there's a problem
around here. The problem is that the humans can do something that no other animal can and so they
can be something that no other animal would. And they think we think that we're intelligent and
I'm going to try to demonstrate that our intelligence is very peculiar because it's
misfiring catastrophically. In fact, it will turn the remaining biologies of our world into a
snuff film in about five minutes if we don't stop it right now together and change the whole
vector of our behavior. We've become catastrophically confused. And not only that, we're sure that we're
not only are we sure we're not confused, we're basically sure that we're gods.
And so every time we make a mistake, we just kind of stomp our foot and make it harder just to kind
of show the world and the sky that nothing can stop us. I think I'm going to explain why that's a
problem in a very clear way that everyone can understand and few people are going to be able to
argue with. We tend to think of evolution as raising single winners. That's not what happens.
What happens is that populations raise heroes, reproductive heroes. And populations are groups
and they can be very small. They can be just a few people, right? A family will raise a hero.
Not everyone in the family is a hero, but if they stick together as a family and support
the heroes and the structure and then the heroes support the weaker members and actually lift them
up, right? To either equality or above the heroes, to adoration and reverence. Then we have
intelligence. Then we have humanity and we have something like the planet earth, which did that
with us. They took the disadvantaged kid, right? And they said, we're going to the whole living
planet. They didn't do this like a thought. They did it just as a living system. Yeah,
as a living organism, a super organism. They raised us up on their backs of the backs of
their deaths and their suffering and their dreams and so much as all the animals and
beings that are alive have dreams and they do. You can watch them dreaming, but they also have
dreams in the sense that they know the difference between justice and injustice in a universal
sense that's non-verbal. They know the difference between excellence and falsehood lies. They
know the difference. If you pretend you're going to pet them and then you crush them,
