all of this in their own way. We don't want to just bring their knowledge back. We need to come
way beyond ahead of that. They failed too. They couldn't stop us. Did any of them win in stopping
us? No. And they had their own problems too. Let's not forget. These people were just as confused
as we are in their own ways even though they were probably a lot more in touch with the living
intelligence that we're immersed in. I want to say one more thing. We keep looking to the sky for
for alien intelligence. I want to tell you bluntly, I know a lot about intelligence right here on earth
and there's a language of intelligence here that humans don't speak. It's the language of purpose.
Purpose. Why a creature is in a place doing a thing, being itself at a given time.
That's those are the sort of outer skin of the purpose. And creatures and places themselves
know then speak this language, this language of purposive relation. Humans don't speak it.
They don't recognize it. They can't read it in nature or each other in general. There are
exceptions. Mothers are better at it and babies are pros. Young children can know all about this
language and they learn to forget it when they learn this one. And each of these languages
builds a mind in its image even though Sapir Worf has supposedly been disproven. We've missed the
boat on that one. Languages do assemble minds in their image. Their connotation libraries
and their metaphors both make for different minds because we use metaphors to see internally.
That's why I'm trying to make these ones here today. Now, when I say that there's
intelligences in the world that we can touch, I really mean it. I mean, your mind was meant to in
some way co-participate with webs of anciently involved intelligence and to learn with and
for them in a way where there's a wave that you send out to them and then they send out a wave of
benefit back to you and this just keeps going back and forth and it speeds up over time until it
becomes basically just a flow back and forth. And this is what was what our ancestors were doing
and that's how we became intelligent. But then at some point we, you know, from above or from
our pyramid of knowledge from the top, we started attacking the bottom bricks as we destroyed them
and we're getting very close to being done destroying the bottom bricks. We kept shrinking
and not noticing because they had raised the stuff to see with. So as we attack them, we can't see,
we're attacking our own eyes. They are outside us. They see us and that feeds back into us.
All the living beings, right? All the living places too. They sense us. We are part of their
body. And if we attack them, they see. And we know ourselves by projecting them back inside
ourselves in an imaginary reflection. So if we know we are attacking them, we can't be whole.
It's the same with other beings, other people. If we assemble ourselves in an imaginary amphitheater
of enemies and friends, heroes, admirers, and those who despise us. So if we attack and kill
other people and they are now in that amphitheater, we can't lie. This is why our soldiers are dying
when they come home from a war of PTSD. We can't lie. Our policemen are prison guards. We can't lie.
In ourselves, we know the truth because our subconscious mind, you know, this side of our
body, our right hemisphere, so to speak, although both sides are involved in the subconscious,
they can't lie. They know about all the theories and everything and the excuses and the arguments.
They don't believe any of them. And nature is the same way. She has purpose of intelligence. What we
say means nothing. Our theories mean nothing at all. You can throw them all away. It's what we do
with each other and in nature that is intelligence or is not. So if we sound very intelligent, we
have mathematics and physics that can make nuclear bombs, but we can't relate with organisms,
we're not yet intelligent and we're heading for a fall because we've been playing this game where
we pulled the evolutionary hammer of the gun back and instead of going forward up into super function
and then dragging all of the other animals with us, which was what we would do every year.
We've been slamming it into the world and going down every year with the same energy. So think
about this in a banking metaphor. This would be like you invest $10 so at the end of the year
you can have a huge party and burn 10 million. Or you invest $10 so at the end of the year
everyone on earth can have a huge party and become 15 times more intelligent and next year they'll
invest $12,000. For about a hundred years we've been doing the first one. We've been investing
$10 so we can burn 10 million at the end of the year just just us and nobody gets anything
and all their effort gets sparked and no one gets the investment value. We get war,
trillions of dollars which are actually that's actually the evolutionary
benefit of all of the living beings on earth being themselves, that those trillions of dollars
that we spend to blow each other up and irradiate the Middle East and destroy the the cradle of
civilization. We're intelligent. What exactly are we teaching in our universities? Could someone
remind me? How useful is mathematics with dead oceans? I'm just curious about that.
If we can't relate as human beings where is our intelligence? Going to space isn't going to help
us. In fact finding intelligences in space they're not going to be very interested in talking to us.
They're going to go talk to other creatures on earth who would be intelligent like I don't even
know dolphins, whales, octopuses, cephalopod spiders, praying mantises. They're not humans.
We're the ones who have poisoned the whole atmospheric envelope which is essentially
sent a message to everyone saying we like machines a lot and we're trying to become them
and we're going to send you some machine signals in case you'd like to come become
machines with us. Well nothing wants to do that. So there's this way that our intelligence can
actually attack its source. It's not unnatural because it's within nature but it's omnicidal
in that it assaults its own basis itself, all of its participants, all of its investments, all of its
futures for what? So let's stop punching the biosphere of intelligence and let's actually
maybe we can even stop pulling back and just pulling back the slingshot and just pause in our
molestation for one moment of each other, right? We could do that. We could just put like a hold
on molestation no more mutilating each other, no more destroying or decimating the planet for like
a little while and just see if we could what we could learn from that alone just from that moment
of silence in respect of all of the killing and loss and destruction and confusion that we've
called intelligence up till now and then we might have a chance to discover it because it looks like
little pods of people and beings like dolphin pods, right? You know a dolphin pod can be shattered
by the fear of a shark by the suggestion of a shark but when they are in unity they eat sharks
for lunch. Sharks will not go near them because a pod of dolphins is there's no shark strong enough
to take it and this is our nature and this is what we've been sold. This is slavery and prisons
and police. We become either the cops or the prisoners and of course the cops are the prisoners
that's the secret as our soldiers have found out, yeah. So you don't want that what you want is
pods going together in mutual uplift all over the world with living intelligences not machine
intelligences and more families than cars okay more living beings than representations and museums
and books and we can right now use the the effort that we are that we are spending the same way
we're spending it on learning on on sending emails and on the internet we can spend all of that
effort just by flipping a simple switch that builds these little pods we can spend that effort
to lift all of us because the way we're doing it currently is making us separated and ignorant
and it's blinding us further. Now if we continue to learn along the lines that I've just merely
suggested in this in this brief outline for which I thank you for your patience I think we're gonna
discover that we're surrounded by non-human intelligences that are a sophistication
we wouldn't survive encountering we're terrified of it they're deeper than our wildest science
fictions and they're right next to us in insects right where you're looking right where no one's
paying attention in a in our own hand there are secrets so astonishing that they could lead to
other stars by themselves in our hands we haven't taken a look at life we don't know what organisms
are we've got the wrong idea um earth is an impossibly advanced transcendent star of intelligence
and we've been playing with the excrement portion and painting in that with our faces
and killing everything that is producing all that intelligence and thinking all the time that we are
gods that's gotta stop we've got to find out what our real role is because it's so majestic
and amazing even if we just do it with each other that all of our fictions are boring in comparison
I promise you I know because I've tasted it let's no religions no science no books no paradigm
sales I promise you let's just find out what's going on around here together that's that's all
asking it's a simple proposition and let's pause on the mutilations the circumcisions of our children
