they know the difference. Every animal knows that difference. It doesn't take any kind of,
you know, sophisticated representational system to understand that. So the sperm that wins in
the conception is actually the one that was raised on the backs of all the others. That's their hero.
And so in a sense, 10 million beings will die to raise that one being to incredible opportunity
that will be born into the world as a human or animal. In a world 3.5 billion years old,
trillions of amazingly ramified life years old, basically a star, a shining invisible star of
relational intelligence. In every way, not merely the equivalent of the sun,
but its crown, its crowning glory. This world is the hero of our solar system in the sense of
we are the living world. And so even we represent this idea that I'm talking about that a pod raises
up a hero. And then the other members support it. And this body here is their unity, the body of
their unity. This is intelligence, actually not this. It's where they connect and how they connect
and how they can change and connect and interrelate in ways that are unexpectedly sophisticated.
Or they can fight. They can pretend that they're not unities. But if this finger fights this finger,
yeah, the hand is useless. And that's what we're up to, actually, both with our own people
and in nature. And that's confusing. Here's how that happens.
First of all, we tend to think about our species as intelligent, but we're not. We are
representationally sophisticated. That means we can make technologies that represent the world and
its forces in our minds that represent each other and ourselves in our minds. We can think about
thinking we are homo sapiens sapiens, we know that we know, or we stutter about knowledge is
actually kind of a clearer truth. Now, what happens in nature that we've got to stop immediately
is I'm going to make a little model of you can imagine a crazy animal
that grabs up a bunch of the relational and evolutionary momentum and then pulls that back
into its intelligence like a slingshot and then just goes rushing forward into a brick wall. Blam,
as hard as it can. Normally, this animal would be killed the first time it did that. And every
animal that tried that again would die. So they wouldn't reproduce and you just, nature wouldn't
allow that. She just doesn't let that fly. The reason we can get away with it is the nature of
this wall that we're smashing into. And mostly we're not doing it to grow or progress or learn.
We're just doing it because we're both like kind of angry and we're sort of frightened and we're
afraid of what our actual identity on earth is and that and also what that would mean for our
history, how we would see our history if we saw something more like our identity, which is the
hero of the animal universe and the human universe, both. So it's like the solar system universe and
it's the terrestrial universe of life on earth that lifted our species up literally above it.
Part of us likes to think so and part of us wants to say we're just animals.
Actually, we're a very, very special animal in the same way that neurons in our bodies and in the
world are very, very special cell. Neurons, the specific kinds we have in our guts, by the way,
and our brains. These are kind of a heroic sort of cell that's similar to us in the world.
You wouldn't want to just say, well, those are just another cell. Those are the basis of brains on
earth. All of them, they're not an accident. And the ones that we have are really peculiar because
they can do this thing that I'm doing. And they can make strange waves in the relational space
that are highly articulate and mechanical almost like we do. We call them machines. There have
never been waves like that in the relational space before. There never were cages before
we began to think. And our thinking is a form of making cages inside ourselves that we reflect
things into and then try to trap them there. So it's not too surprising that we then kind of
cage the world and we view the world in that modality, but that's not that's not our nature.
Our nature is to have been lifted up to impossible evolutionary super function of
rocketing into evolutionary benefit and astonishing unthinkable progress and acceleration and
progress and acceleration in phases that just pulse like a heartbeat. And they grow geometrically
over time. That's what earth would do for us if we would let her. That's what she that's how we
she raised a step. She made this pulse of the evolutionary benefit over a period of time,
like a year, the seasonal cycle. And when that came back together around the end of the year,
we would receive the evolutionary benefit of having participated in all those relationships
intimately right now as beings, not as just thinking beings who make plans and machines and
try to take benefit out of it in ways that they can represent. No, as beings who become the
benefit in their own sophistication, intelligence, ability to see and express and be human together,
within for each other, not for machines, not for books, not for religions, not for science,
within for each other and other living beings together, understanding and learning and growing
together, because we realize that the living places and the living beings
literally lifted us up. And so we now have the responsibility to co lift them, not to protect
them. They they exist in their own right to protect them would already be to admit we are wrong.
Yeah, no, to not molest them, first of all, to to unmolest them, and then to to also to raise
them through us being noble in our relations with them and true, rather than giving word, you know,
taking lots of pictures and saying we like the animals while the pictures that we are taking.
And we are copying the pictures and backing them up and transmitting them
thousands of billions of times per hour, which is actually sucking the life out of our world
in order for us to take more pictures and back them up and copy them and track them and trace
them and see if it needs to be arrested and all of that kind of thing. Now, what used to happen
is the world would pulse at the end of the season, the evolutionary benefit would be shared among
all the beings they would skyrocket up developmentally, we would be lifted up representationally and in
terms of our insight about the world and ourselves and the sky and the cosmos and the sources of
knowledge and the sources of intelligence that inform this conversation right now, rather than
we have something written down in a book where this is a speech, right? This is like a song I am
singing from my heart. It's not a speech. And so these pulses would happen and there are many pulses
each day as the pulse each breath each heartbeat and all the beings are pulsing together in this way
and it's all being shared and linking together and magnifying in a kind of intelligence that is
invisible and unspoken, but every being is receiving the benefits until that is all shattered by
terror. And how does that get shattered by terror? Well, you lift up a hero and then the hero from
above you just starts attacking you with lightning, right? Down and killing everything and saying,
you're just machines, you're just objects, right? You don't really exist, you animal, living place,
beings, you oceans, you skies, you're just things, no one can prove you have minds, no one can prove
you have souls. We can do as we wish with you. You're so big, you'll just heal back over again.
It's like a pinprick to you, right? Well, it is until there's a billion of us.
And all of our machines. And so again, we have this animal that's just pulling back the evolutionary
power of the world and their own species. And then just mostly out of hubris and kind of a
temper tantrum of fear of what their actual the beauty and power of our actual role might be
just makes a boatload of machines and then runs, you know, launches the slingshot that it's pulled
and just smashes into the planet as hard as it can. And that that harm echoes out and is absorbed
all over the world. Instead of being destroyed by the first shot like that, the beings actually
slightly strengthened and the planet takes a huge hit and dies. And then they pull it back faster,
boom, and they pull it back faster, boom. And the planet is dying in ways, boom, who as their hero
above them is attacking them from above, wasting the cetacean mind networks of the oceans.
The insect networks that supply the pollens for food on earth, which are the living intelligence
elements, you know, the gaps in our neurons are like the gaps between flowers. So we've poisoned
all the pollens, which would be effectively like the human metabolic metaphor would be if we poisoned
all our neurotransmitters, so that transmitting them destroyed neurons or misprogrammed them
wildly. Could that produce analogs of many of the relational and cognitive diseases we see today?
Could, I'm not saying it does. Maybe it does. There is a link, you know, between what we do
in the world and our minds. And I'm trying to show that it's much more intimate that we think
and it's up to the moment. It's not cause and effect. Our minds rise in this moment from this
pulsing. Yeah. So if it's all broken by assault and poison and noise and dead terrain and machines
and toxicity and radiation, if it's all shattered by shipping and explosive radar,
