You cannot litigate a man into being a father.
That's absolutely wrong.
And for the mother to expect that to happen is absolutely wrong.
To teach the child that the father is supposed to be present in raising them
just because they happen to be their biological father is completely ridiculous.
It's just wrong.
It's not true about the kind of animal that we are
and you can make up any kind of story you want that won't change a thing.
So if like me and like many other people I know
you've suffered in this way either as a parent or as a child or as both
it can be a great relief to understand
that we were placed in the situations we had no possible way to cope with.
We couldn't even tell what I'm saying here.
We didn't even know what I'm saying here to be able to try to work it out.
And if you were so lucky that you had a wonderful family
and even one good parent or two
then that's definitely absolutely worth celebrating
and by all means we should try to empower each other
to fulfill those roles where possible
but to absolutely demand them
or tell rotten terrifying stories about them
torture each other, litigate and get the courts involved.
That's a sick, devastatingly stupid idea.
We need to just stop doing that
and we need to also begin talking about these
really important features of our humanity
that are completely overlooked in our culture
but are absolutely necessary to our developmental health
to our purpose of intelligence
our ecological intelligence
our relational intelligence and our emotional intelligence
as well as our learning intelligence, our intellectual intelligence.
So if you've suffered in this way
I hope that you may find some relief
in understanding that your parents and the situation they were in
they didn't have a chance.
If your father was a monster
if your mother was a monster
if they were fighting each other or torturing each other
or you or the other children were fighting and stuff
this is really more because we're in situations
that are completely unnatural
and hopefully you'll be able to forgive
and realize that these people were probably doing the very best
they could manage in a situation they were abjectly unprepared for
and just knowing that can be a huge relief
for all of us who suffered in this way
in any of these roles
and being able to talk about it and realize
that we really need a tribe
we really need a pod group
to raise children in ways that are healthy and matter
and the more that we can talk about
and learn how to assemble this in the really bizarre
alienating and a strange technological
we're sort of
toxically technological cultures that we presently have
the better chance that we'll have to both heal the wounds of our past
and give our children and our parents
the resources that they need to succeed and grow
and discover their astonishing powers of humanity
and learning and joy
when we are able to make the kinds of tightly knit pod-like groups
that are our nature.
Thank you for joining me
if you have any questions or anything to add
I would love to hear from you
please feel free to send me a friend request on Facebook
or follow me here on YouTube
and I look forward to learning much more together
and to trying to form cultures
that we can be intelligent and beautiful
amazing living beings in nature together today.
Thanks again. Bye bye for now.
