Those roles can change over time.
They're fluid developmentally.
The roles are very interesting and they're very engaging for each of the mothers.
They all share resources so that there's very little stress in terms of, you know,
you just having to be the mother of your children and provide just for your children
and then sort of compete with all the other groups for any resources including attention.
There's tons of attention to go around.
There's tons of developmental opportunities and sort of novelty,
which is crucially important for our development.
And then the fathers are often sort of not too interested in raising kids, right?
They tend to be doing other things.
They're out hunting or they're competing to get new resources
and sort of go to new terrains, establish new relationships that benefit their pod.
The fathers are not tending to be deeply involved in child rearing in general.
There are exceptions, right?
And of course it's kind of, it's a little bit open.
But traditionally the way it works is this.
Groups of mothers raise the children and the fathers are often absent.
And when they come back, of course they love their children,
but they're not particularly involved in child rearing.
Now here's what happens in our country, which is completely nonsensical and insane.
What happens is that each mother has to basically provide all of the resources for the child
unless the father is present or unless they have the support of a family.
That's impossible and ridiculous and will destroy the average mother's life
even though many women are so amazing that they're actually able to accomplish this task
in a culture as completely destroyed and toxic as ours is.
And then the other thing that happens that's really fascinating and stupid
is that we decide that because the man was involved in generating the pregnancy
that the man is now materially and sort of legally bound
in some way to support that one person raising his or his and other children.
And then what happens is the state and the federal government get involved
and start acting as overseers and will basically threaten and punish the father
even if he does what he's supposed to do, but definitely if he doesn't do what they think he's supposed to do.
And here's the problem.
Most men are actually not really meant to be fathers,
but in the sense that we demand of them and that apparently we think is their legal responsibility.
That's actually just a bunch of invented fictional bullshit.
It has nothing to do with human development.
It's a torture system that basically ruins everybody because the mothers don't form pods.
Our culture is so broken that it's almost impossible to do this in our current milieu.
And the children have very limited access to multiple mothering
and they're sort of expecting their father, their one father to be there
and to father them and to help them develop.
Now in some families there's just so much love between the parents
and there's so much incredible intimacy there that they can survive all of this
and stay together and they raise their children and they do a fairly decent job.
But what happens in a lot of families is all different kinds of psychosis
and most of these parents are actually not prepared to raise children at all.
They have no idea really what's involved in this process.
They don't have the resources psychologically, intellectually, relationally, purposefully, financially to do any of this.
And so what's going to happen when the child gets born is there's a big crisis
where there's not enough anything for anyone and then everybody gets punished.
The children get punished, the mothers get punished, the fathers are often destroyed.
Because first of all they're expected to fulfill a role that evolutionarily they're really just not prepared for.
Now again there are lots of amazing fathers, there are lots of amazing single fathers,
there are amazing single mothers, there are amazing family units where you have a mother and a father and they're raising children.
Yes, we're flexible enough and some of us can, some of us sort of, we were developmentally healthy enough
that when we came into the situation of being parents and childbirth
that we were able to adjust even to the ridiculous situation we have here.
But what happens to the vast majority of people and especially sort of the poorer you are,
the more this is likely to happen to you, is that your life is essentially destroyed
and what happens is you're converted to the myth of the legal responsibilities
which basically sets up the mother as the recipient of the work benefit of the father
whether or not they are involved in raising the child.
This means that the mother expects the father to provide all of the resources for this
and to somehow also care for himself and provide for himself in the world.
Additionally to care for and provide for anyone else who may be important in his life such as another lover or his family or perhaps other children.
And in general this turns into an absolute catastrophe where the father is so tortured by the situation
and it's completely probably unprepared for fatherhood as well, I'll get to that in a minute,
that essentially it just destroys his life, it often destroys his ability to make money
and to get the resources necessary to take care of the financial and substantive needs of the mother and the child or children.
And the mother sees the father whenever he is failing at this as being a bad person, remiss, evil, etc.
It really just sets up a torture system and this destroys everybody.
It ruins the children because the children are inculcated with this myth
that the missing father is somehow evil, bad, for not supporting them, for not being there, etc.
When in fact what's going on is a lot more sophisticated than this. Here's what's really going on.
We're being forced to inhabit roles that we are not prepared for
and that don't in any way match our evolutionarily developed resources and proclivities.
So essentially the way it works is this.
Women are basically physically and psychologically prepared to be mothers at very young ages.
Almost as soon as they can become pregnant they at least have the capacity to give birth.
Now they're probably not psychologically prepared to be a mother until they're older,
maybe they're in their 20s or even older.
And our culture is horrible at preparing mothers and fathers for these roles
because it's actually horrible at preparing us just to be people, never mind parents.
So what goes on is this. The mother is relatively more prepared for the role of being a parent.
The father on the other hand is in almost no cases prepared at all.
In general men are not really relatively, they don't have the resources to be a decent father
until they're old enough to have developed a sense of maturity
and the desire to really relate with and be with children.
Often this doesn't happen until men are 40 or 50 or older.
And so for the young part of a man's life, his sort of developmental path is to establish himself in the world,
to establish his intellectual, relational and purposive persona
and his vocational path, his work and his ability to make money, which is incredibly important in our culture.
And also whatever kinds of creative or sort of self-fulfilling aspects that are an important part of him growing into manhood.
And so now the women have the same sorts of needs and they have the same kinds of developmental needs.
They have the same kinds of relational needs and purposive needs.
And they are also very poorly prepared and our culture is absolutely ridiculously impoverished around these things.
So what often happens is you get very poorly prepared people trying to raise children.
And either they're together or they're apart, but in any case it just doesn't work, right?
