And they'll demonstrate this the moment they start talking.
You'll hear flurry of phrases out of books instead of their own intelligence and only phrases out of books.
They won't have their own ideas.
They're just sort of parroting things they've heard.
They're very superficially minded.
They're prototypes.
They're facades.
They could have become human beings had they been educated or brought up in any kind of human and natural culture
connected with nature, intelligence, other human beings who are not merely prototypes, not merely facades,
who haven't been patamkinned.
Then they would have become human, but they didn't.
They were given examples of parents that didn't.
They did other things instead.
Things they thought were more important apparently.
Apparently?
Apparently.
So the children became facades.
There were lots of representations and they went crazy and their very wealthy parents could not cure them.
I know 50 people like this.
They're beautiful daughters or sons.
Their whole family, their wives, everybody is going insane and there's millions of dollars.
It can't buy them sanity.
Believe it or not, I could probably repair those minds.
I probably could repair those minds with a little bit of support.
It's not that hard if you understand how they got built.
And we're talking about it now, right?
You hide this, you get little girls who think they're supposed to be stick figures and wear makeup.
You know what makeup actually is?
It's the acknowledgement of sexual surveillance and the agreement to be sexually surveilled.
That's exactly what makeup is.
And the tie basically says I'm the sexual surveyor.
I'm the jailer.
I'm the this.
I'm the d-head.
I'm going to push you down so I'll rise up in hardness and tower over you and make you do things wrong.
Schizophrenia, psychosis.
You want to know how shootings happen?
Bingo, right?
You broke this person away from the pod.
You isolated them so severely that they became what you projected.
A monster.
And suddenly their identity just shattered.
And anything with identity just turned around and became a monster.
And we did that.
We all did that.
Our culture does that to children.
Then we attack them and charge you to punish them and charge me to punish them.
As though they were the problem.
Apparently.
Now, so the reverse Pinocchio is where you get a real kid to be a representation or parent.
And again, you do the same thing to reverse that.
You just fill those people with content.
Meaning fill them with humanity.
Let's fill with each other.
And with human unity and mutual uplift and mutual concern for everyone from now on.
No more like there are this, there are that.
He's a this.
No.
Everyone.
Every living being from now on.
Respect, reverence, care.
No religion.
No science.
No books.
No dogma.
This.
Right?
So we can reverse Potemkin.
The Potemkin villages of the internet.
Of our cultures.
And when that happens, we're going to take over all the communication stuff.
Not by war, but just communicating.
That's all we have to do is just use exactly what we're using now.
The technologies they built for us.
The internet is a giant Potemkin village.
You guys all run in there.
They steal your intelligence away.
And they form new kinds of intelligence to squish you down with.
So we're going to go in there and we're going to steal all that intelligence back for us.
So that we're going to make the 80 percent.
They're still going to get their five.
We're going to have 80 plus five.
We're going to have the 80.
They're going to have five.
They're going to pay us.
Okay.
And we're going to make the 80 together that they've been burning down and stealing the rest.
We're going to do it right now just by communicating a little bit differently.
And learning a few cons.
That have been used against us and how to reverse them together.
Within four.
Each other.
Our children.
The mothers.
The history of life on earth has raised us to this position.
We have a responsibility to act intelligently together now without dogma or disagreement.
In fact, this is our greatest power.
Although this is this may be our greatest power here, which is a much greater mystery with this one.
We got to retrieve this first.
This may be our greatest power.
