our children alive and unmutilated, our social networks alive and unmutilated.
But no, they want to replace this with a mechanical system that they own,
and we're going to talk about how that happens and what we can do about it.
It involves two basic concepts.
Well, three if you include the hand, which we're going to.
And our culture would happen, essentially, is that leaders, quote-unquote,
who claim to represent the people are actually mimics.
These are a bit like pro-wrestlers, they know how to work a crowd.
They're a bit like hypnotists, they're a bit like magicians.
They know how to manipulate forces in the population really, really easily.
I'd like to read you a little bit of what Elaine Scarry is on about here
because what she does is show that our leaders used fear to steal everything,
the future, our nation, each other, our educational systems.
And she shows four models of response and emergency that are incredibly intelligent,
and they all build intelligence and they build human intimacy.
Whereas the models that we use do largely the opposite.
They break down our intimacy with terror.
They take all the produce of our work and siphon that up to a very small number of people.
And they largely forget about kill, bury, or accuse us of being the problem.
Let's talk about one of the things that...
Let me let Elaine talk about one of the things that she'd like us to know about Switzerland.
But before we do that...
Here we go.
Yeah, here we go.
It is crucial to understand that what differentiates Switzerland and the United States
is not that one country believes shelters are potentially effective
and the other country believes they are ineffective.
Both countries have devoted vast resources to the belief that they are effective.
Shelter is important.
What differentiates Switzerland and the United States is the beneficiaries of the shelters,
the population, in the case of Switzerland, the government leaders, in the case of the United States.
Switzerland's goal is to make certain it can enact, quote, legal equality,
by making certain, quote, every inhabitant of our country has the same chance of survival, unquote.
In contrast, not only was the money spent on the United States presidential fallout shelter
vastly in excess of the amount spent on fallout shelters for the population,
billions of dollars to protect president, zero dollars to protect the population.
It was vastly in excess of all civil defense allocated for the population,
for floods, fire, hurricanes, and other catastrophes,
including earthquakes and everything else,
radiation, poisonings, you name it.
Now, she goes on to say after a small diversion,
one of two things is true, either fallout shelters are useless,
in which case neither the population nor the government should have them,
or they are useful in which case both the population and its leaders should have them.
That's basically a black or white choice. There's not much gray there.
Many things there is. There's a kind of gray area.
In this choice, it's not. It's either we all deserve them or not.
Now, one of the reasons that Switzerland has a shelter policy,
where they make everybody have shelters under their house.
Every house has a fully stocked fallout shelter,
but it's not obviously just a fallout shelter.
It's a way to protect each other against various kinds of incursions or invasions
or blackmail, extortion.
My force is that without those shelters and without the networks that the shelters build
of human trust, they practice the shelters.
They practice sheltering each other.
No matter what their creeds or agreements or ideas are,
they practice sheltering each other all the time,
so that they can't really be destroyed by an outside force.
They won't be destroyed by that.
In fact, not only that, they can drive their government,
instead of their government driving them,
because the government knows how strong its people are
and that they cannot be frightened or intimidated
and broken apart like fingers on a hand
somehow think they become separate because power over here
is dominating them by hiding this with a trick,
a meta-position trick, right?
Oh no, there's something going on where you're not really the same.
You guys should all fight, right?
Like the liberals should fight, the Democrats should fight,
the Republicans should fight the anarchists, right?
Meanwhile over here, we're skyrocketing to fame.
On all of your work production, you're getting none of that.
You're going lower and lower as you fight,
and we're just attacking you, right?
As you go lower, we just attack you while you raise us up.
So in our culture, we've got a real problem with how we deal with leadership,
and this is also the model for masculinity.
What is that model?
Well, it is absolute godhood and success for me
and nothing for you because we're competitors, right?
So our fellowship is really only kind of a game we play socially
to get, quote, ahead.
Ahead?
I won't go into the euphemism or the metaphor there too deeply,
but I think we know what comes from that.
Now I'd like to show you a couple of interesting things
and before I do that, I want to tell you a little bit more about Switzerland
because as we talk about the two cons that are played on us
and how we can radically reverse them quickly,
this example will become important.
Elaine Scarry.
Switzerland has accurately been described as a reverse Potemkin village.
A Potemkin village has visible facades with no actual construction behind them.
Switzerland is the opposite.
This shelter system has few visible structures,
but inside many mountains are hidden.
Hospitals and beneath every house is a fully stocked and working fallout shelter.
Dispersed throughout the countryside,
