our shelters for the artworks and artifacts held in common by the population
that connect them to one another, and here's the critical thing,
transnational culture.
See, we're supposed to have a natural culture and then a human culture
and then an interpersonal culture and then a natural culture,
not the natural, excuse me, a national culture.
We've erased the natural culture.
We've gotten rid of most of the human culture and replaced that with representations,
fashion fetishes.
And then we've gotten rid of all of the human sort of intimacy culture
and human culture by doing the same thing, representations, the internet, etc.
And then the ruling culture as we just come any elite monarchy tyranny class
that just keeps rising while just keeps attacking all those other ones.
And the one that it's attacking most is nature, of course,
because that's the one that has no voice who can say anything for nature.
If we can't speak for people, you don't even want to understand what's happening in nature right now.
If I were to tell you in any explicit fashion, your news is not...
Even your wildly conspiracist news is not accurate enough.
We shouldn't listen to that kind of news,
because it's going to mislead us about where to look and why and how to solve it.
But yeah, nature is taking the worst catastrophic beating,
probably in recent millions of years in terms of like species loss
and ecosystems just being burned down.
And part of the reason that's happening is so it can just be converted into war
and explosive mechanical reproduction technologies
so that there won't be any possibility of that interfering with the goals of the elites, right?
They want that gone, that's just like intelligence.
I'm going to explain two cons that are used, that are fascinating here.
The first involves the one that Elaine was talking about, the Potemkin Village.
There's a modern film that's called High Plains Drifter that I think may partake of this concept.
I'm going to show you how the con works, how it's played,
and it's a crucial feature of many cons of wide range of cons.
You can make some magic tricks on it, you can base hypnotism routines on it
that are very deep and powerful, can even change lives.
Before we do that, I want to just make a really clear statement.
A lot of people want to tell you what the spiritual universe is like,
what the political universe is like, what the intellectual universe is like,
what the New Age universe or the conspiracy universe or the paranormal universe
or the anarchist universe or the demonic universe,
some kind of universe they want to tell you what it is all about.
I would just actually set all of that aside, all the whole cultural mess.
It'll be there when we're done, so let's just set that aside, we'll play a game here.
I don't know what I'm doing, you don't know what we're doing.
Let's just play around and see what we can find out without all that junk.
We'll keep our language and some of our suppositions about reality.
But I'm not going to make any new cults.
Let's look at these cons, how they're played on us.
The first one is the Potemkin Village, how that works is,
you kind of build a village out in the middle of nowhere.
And then you somehow let people know that it's there, so it draws them in.
But there's nothing there.
And then they notice that, well, gee, there's this whole village just sitting here.
Why don't we come on in and make ourselves at home?
So they do.
So people move in.
They're probably not people who have really great lives already
because otherwise they wouldn't be looking for a place like that, right?
And that place wouldn't really interest them.
It's not very connected to anything.
But it's free and it is built so they can just move in with their families and live there.
So they think this is a great idea, but it's not a bad idea in some cases.
It depends kind of what, how it got set up and why and by who.
But the idea really in a Potemkin Village, one of the ways to use it,
is you set up a village, people move in and then you take everything from them.
And you sell it because they're not connected, right, to anything.
They're like a little satellite out in the middle of nowhere, really.
And they thought they were going to get something great, but actually they can't get food.
So, and so they grow food, but you come in and take all that
and then just give them a little bit back and make them pay you for that, right?
And things like that.
There's lots of different ways to use this principle.
Once you understand it, you're going to see it all around you.
Don't get paranoid, okay?
Don't be afraid.
This has been everywhere for millennia.
This is part of being human.
Use it.
I'm going to show you how to spin it around for free so that you'll have these techniques
and you can use them as creatively as you like.
And you can reflect them back to me and teach me, we'll just go together
learning forward in this game, right?
Like we used to do as children.
Without any external authorities, they can't.
What do they do?
I'm not one.
I'm not an authority.
We're just playing here.
So, let's continue.
Learn a little bit more about the Potemkin Village Gambit.
Now, imagine how you can use this.
Suppose it was like World War I or something and you're getting bombed from above
and you have some assets you need to protect.
So, you could build a giant battleship out of foam and launch it
because they didn't have satellites.
So, they're just flying over the kind of a blurry picture.
That big battleship looked like a real target.
You could stage it so that you could draw the enemy to that zone with the Potemkin battleship
and they would attack it and you could wipe them out.
Or just deflect another attack and move forces that you needed to protect.
So, it can be used defensively, but it's mostly an offensive weapon.
