You just turned the states into prisons.
Didn't they all steal media?
They're all copyright thieves.
They're felons.
Your whole nation is felons.
Turn the states into prisons.
Lock them down now.
Does it go on from there?
So without my torso, right?
That connects my head to my body is the same thing as if we hide this with fear or lies or pretense or religions or political parties or anything.
We can still have our political parties.
We just can't hide this.
See, this is the difference between us and Switzerland.
This is shelter.
This stays open, right?
If there's something really artificial in here, guess what?
If we don't see this artificial thing that's in here like this, we can't do anything with our hand, right?
I won't be able to type.
I won't be able to play the guitar.
I won't make these gestures.
It'll help me communicate with you.
If I then try to put something else in my hand, I'm not even able to grab it, right?
And I won't even be able to see this thing because in this case, this, in the social case,
it's my neighbor putting his car in the garage.
We're competing with that.
This is our social intelligence.
This is our mind, right?
So if this is hidden somehow by any kind of story or description of reality, especially of God or of truth or justice,
those have to be discovered together as we learn in process.
They cannot be stipulated as laws or even laws, right?
Laws can cover this up because they pretend that we don't need this.
We just have laws.
No, we need this so that we have a culture so intelligent that laws are basically fluff.
We need them for the most extreme cases only.
This is our law first and then law functions on top of that.
Otherwise, these people just replace this with law.
You know what happens then?
And then these people have all these people fighting each other and even fighting these people, but they can't touch them.
These people have all the power.
Every time these people fight, they get more power.
Every time they think, they get more power.
If they work, they get more power.
No matter what these people do, they sink down.
These guys go up and pretty soon you got this, except the unity is hidden.
So you just got this and this guy starts going and the planet starts dying.
And the future starts dying and all the things we would have invested in start dying.
So how do we turn that around like this?
If people set up a Potemkin village, which basically not all of the population,
but in general our culture and our population and all of its branches are Potemkin, all of them.
If they set that up, what you do is this.
You become shelters for each other.
No creeds, no leaders, no dogmas, no books, no names of things.
It's just something we do.
No one made it up.
We don't know where it came from.
It's like thinking everyone does it, even children.
In fact, the children seem to really like it best.
Wouldn't that be strange?
We could respect and adore each other.
We could revere truth and discover justice again.
We could learn what liberty looks like since we've never seen it.
We might even, who knows, stumble across intelligence.
We used to have some, you know.
It was a long time ago, I agree, but come on now.
We're still the vessel.
We're still made to carry it together, but we have to carry it together like this.
Okay?
Not like this.
Not like this.
No.
Now these people generate anxiety, fear, adoration, rock stars, comedians.
Comedians are closer to the truth.
They're closer to a revolutionary.
Even revolutionary heroes are a problem, right?
Even radicals are a problem.
You've got these radicals over here.
They're a problem.
Everyone's afraid of these guys.
You need these guys.
These guys become Robin Hoods when they're properly, you know, integrated.
And you need the conservatives, and you need the Democrats, you need the idealists,
you need the fierce leaders, but they all have to work for each other.
Not for books or dogma, you know, little phrases and quotes and quips that sound intelligent,
but destroy intelligence because they destroy this, and they destroy where this connects
to the rest of the world, to reality, to time and space, to history, to the future.
And once that's destroyed, these people can take the future, right?
They can burn down the future right now, and we'll help them.
We'll pay them to do it, and then we'll pay them for the remains on the backside,
and they'll take whatever's left.
So when they build a Potemkin village, that's the goal.
We're going to take everything, and then we're going to burn down the rest,
and then we're going to take whatever's left, and then we're just going to keep taking
in littler, littler cycles, but we're going to get all of it, all the work.
And, you know, as that happens, the people do more and more and more and more work.
They get less and less and less and less and less resources.
They get no contact with each other, no contact with nature.
We got basically a lot of America.
And the future looks grim if we don't do something different,
but we can do something different that's really simple and beautiful.
It's so beautiful.
