but they have no understanding what nature is
because you've told them things that are ridiculous like animals
aren't intelligent, which is absolutely insane.
That's like saying, I don't even know, it's like saying...
I guess it's like saying that if you got salt crystals
in a glass of water after leaving it on your desk for a few days
that that was because you are salty.
Now it's kind of true you are salty
but you got salt crystals in the water because the water was salty
and intelligence is the same.
You don't get it unless the whole thing is intelligent.
Nature is the source of our intelligence.
We're burning that down and saying we're intelligent and it's not.
That's just like this guy saying we're rich and they're poor.
Really? Well, how did you get rich?
Didn't we lift you up there?
So there's this really weird con going on
where they create a Potemkin Village out of our people
by not educating them, not allowing them to be connected,
frightening them really bad with all kinds of terrifying news
and things like that, not showing them the nature of intelligence,
the dangers of language, the way to detect mimicry
so that they can know the difference between justice and justice,
truth and truth, humanity and humanity, liberty and prison,
defense and rape.
See, that's different if you're defended or someone's raping you.
That's just different.
We have a hard time saying that these days for some reason.
As a nation, apparently.
Rape means an egregious violation
and that's what our government and our ideals,
our idea of progress, intelligence has become.
So we need to find out why we need to detect mimics
and the first thing we need to understand is that the elites build us.
They Potemkin Village us, they give us a facade
and there's nothing in there because we haven't educated ourselves.
You've read some books and seen some films and stuff
and maybe we've done some psychedelic drugs
or we've read a couple of radical authors or something
but we are not ready to lead anything to anywhere.
We're just going to argue with people.
He's right, she's wrong, it's because of this, it's that.
It doesn't work, it's not intelligent, it's not.
If a dolphin pod did that, it'd be dead right now.
The only reason we can do it is because nature absorbs the damage.
So instead of us being just wiped out by our stupidity, nature absorbs it.
We have to stop that.
And then also we absorb it.
First we absorb it, then nature absorbs it.
It's just a chain of these people on the top.
Not only that, they're only getting like 2% of the cream.
So if we just work together, we're going to get like 80% of the cream.
They can still have their 2%.
We'll be able to guide them.
They'll be intelligent, we'll be intelligent.
We'll have revolution overnight.
Just by playing the game a little differently.
Let's look at how this works.
They put Tempkin Village to the entire nation, right?
They took over the Indians.
I mean, it's just, and then they made false people who were just representations of ideas
and book ideas and religions and things.
It's ridiculous, these aren't human beings yet.
You're not a human being just because you're born looking like this, you know?
You have to become a human being.
You have to discover what it might mean and then step into some of that.
Otherwise, you're really just, you're a prototype.
And they know this.
So they want to make sure that the prototype stays a prototype.
You can understand that, right?
Because a prototype can't threaten you.
And if it can't connect, okay?
If there's none of this palm here that actually allows the fingers and the leaders,
the working members and this.
Because by the way, this leads to something like us, right?
I have a thinking member.
I have four working members.
Yeah, one, two, three, four.
They have three segments, yeah?
I have one unifying body.
I'm the first one being one whole thing.
I need all of me, okay?
If you took my torso away, well, how good would this be?
Imagine if this thing was just separated from the body and talking to you from outside.
Well, you're not very cool.
You don't think.
Come on, man.
I mean, I do everything.
Does that sound like our government by chance?
In fact, you people are just, you know, you're just hangers on.
You don't understand success.
Really?
If I just took my head off my body and I was a woman, it might say, you're too fat.
You don't look like a fashion model.
If I took my head off and I was a man, I was like, you're not a bad enough warrior.
You don't hate women enough and subjugate them.
You don't dominate and kill.
These sound like familiar messages from our culture.
If I took my justice head, why don't you put everyone in prison?
All those people were poor.
