Hi, my name is Darren Stevenson. You can find me on Facebook as the Darren Stevenson in San Francisco.
This is my YouTube channel. I am something of an intelligence artist.
What that means is I've been fascinated throughout my entire lifetime with how intelligence happens,
what it is, where it is, where it goes, what it does, how it becomes intelligent.
When you start thinking about this in a deep way, in fact, even if you think about language very deeply,
or poetics, or heroism, or justice or truth, then you will notice that there's a lot of what I will call mimics running around.
These are people who appear to be wearing costumes of teachers, or spiritual leaders, or protectors, heroes.
And yet, invariably, we tend to find, if we look very deeply at all behind the costume, the opposite is at play.
So an intelligence artist is someone who's a bit like a con man, a confidence artist, or a magician,
except that an intelligence artist, unlike the people who sort of deceive you for your entertainment,
and then profit from you, an intelligence artist gets the profit a different way with the pH.
Let me explain.
An intelligence artist is something like a profit in the pH sense rather than the FIT sense.
By the way, we're going to be contending with the cars because it's 4.42 p.m.
On Tuesday, December 31st, and soon, the traffic will come.
Anyway, more than P-R-O-F-I-T profit, I'm interested in actually a commodity, a very amazing commodity, the commodity of intelligence.
And intelligence and prophecy have a strong link, even though this is often destroyed in our culture.
By the way, these two kind of strange hands, they're not the same.
They look the same, they're structurally very similar, but they're in two different universes actually.
In this universe, everything is kind of this way.
In this universe, everything is kind of this way.
They do this wonderful thing like this, and our brains and eyes and sides of our body and everything are also kind of like that.
Although notice that there's a couple of interesting things to notice.
The first one is this side, the right, for me, the video is reversed by the way.
This is actually my right side, and this is my left.
This is my left hemisphere, which controls my right side of my body.
This is my right hemisphere, which largely controls the left side.
This side is aware of this side as itself.
This side is pretty much an individual by itself.
It doesn't like the idea that there's this other guy over here.
By the way, this hand, the sort of dominant hand, should be subservient to this one, which is actually the sort of meta hand.
For each of the very specific functions of this hand, the hand we don't use much also has functions that we've ignored.
As we develop this hand's functions, it does develop our left hemisphere and our cultures in the image of this hand's way of being in the world, the individual.
As we develop this hand's feelings and senses, we can intelligently drive this hand, sort of both in our minds, as human beings and in our cultures.
An intelligence artist is someone who uses other people's minds.
He or she touches them, and this includes living places and beings, and rides them beyond their own intelligence into entirely other forms and modes of intelligence.
By the way, you are all familiar with many.
The stories they tell us aren't very good.
Dreaming is a profound aspect of intelligence that's more like, excuse me, this side of the body, this side of the brain, my right hemisphere.
It's more like dreaming. It doesn't have a single identity. It doesn't have any specific identity.
It's context-sensitive and informs identities from myriad possibilities in the moment, flowingly, like liquid clouds have missed.
And it's very fluid, and it doesn't care too much about self.
It's ancient. This is brand new, by the way.
This is like a little child. This is like a billion-year-old Buddha, comparatively speaking.
If this one were to evaluate this one, it would just say, oh, you're just a dreamer. You can't build anything.
And it does that in our culture.
And what I'm actually here for today is I'm going to read your minds in the future.
I'm going to read the minds of people who I haven't met yet, who are reading this video, watching it, excuse me, participating in it.
And I'm going to try to, not psychically, but just using intelligence, because intelligence has lots of links that move in different ways within time.
We don't know what they are. I don't know what they are.
And I'm not a professional or an expert.
I'm an amateur, like you. I'm an ordinary person, just living in the world, really interested in what the world is about.
What is light? What is time? Intelligence, liberty, freedom? What are these things?
What does it mean to be human? What could it mean?
If we weren't busy making it mean something else with our constant declarations, huh?
Let's find out together. In order to do that, I'm going to show you some con games.
I'm going to make you a magician of your own mind.
And instead of selling you theories or leaders or dogmas or books, which I'm not going to do at all,
we're just going to play a game together where I'll try to figure out what it is you want.
And I have a little bit of an idea, but I'm going to let sort of just the field of living intelligence that we become in time and space,
without being, you know, in any way scientific, religious, spiritual, intellectual, no.
We're just going to be human, alive.
We'll leave the science at the door. We'll leave the religion at the door.
All the new age theories at the door. No quantum physics.
Just me, you, living beings, the planet, our history, and intelligence.
Have a talk about that for a minute. We'll get down to basics.
And I'm going to show you how a certain kind of con gets perpetrated on us, where we lose the power of our hands.
And after that, only other people can handle things for us, even each other.
We don't even get to touch each other anymore.
Forgive me. I'm going to really be myself doing this because this isn't a lecture.
I don't even know what I'm doing.
I'm just playing here a game with time and intelligence that I'm hoping you'll play with me.
And it's a big experiment. I'm, like I said, I'm not an expert.
I don't know what I'm doing.
Other people know lots of things I don't know.
But I think we can find out some things here that are really surprising.
And I think we can find them out fast.
I'd like to start that process out with a really brilliant woman remembering that my camera's going to reverse this image.
I'll show you the cover of her book.
Her name is Elaine. I believe her last name is Scary, but it could be Scari.
And the book cover is in my hand.
And this is her book. It's called Thinking in an Emergency by Elaine Scari.
It's an Amnesty International Global Ethics Series book.
She's a genius and her argument is fairly simple.
She's trying to say that certain collectors and factions having become capable and cognizant
of implementing a plan whereby, through fear, they could steal everything, the remaining ecosystems,
the government, our money, our work, our future, our history,
because all the work that we've done will be for nothing.
All the progress that we would have made, and they'll just steal most of that,
they'll give us back a tiny pittance, say 2%.
And then they'll burn down the rest of it so that we can't get any of it.
Water, food, each other.
And they'll connect us through means they control, like Google and Facebook, YouTube, Twitter.
And then they will basically just kind of...
They'll take all of our work, all the work of our ancestors, all the wars we fought,
and they will translate that into huge boosts for their personal egos and powers.
They'll turn them into gods, they'll rock it into success,
which, by the way, looks like human beings with a living world together with each other
in astonishing evolutionary development and education and peacetime wonder
with thriving ecologies and the anciently conserved ecosystems alive and unmutilated,
