It will redeem all of the human future.
We'll start assembling, excuse me, redeem all the human past.
We'll start assembling the future in front of us together intelligently
instead of reacting to these ridiculous news reports and things,
which in many cases is sort of true, but not they don't help us.
So what we'll do is this.
We're going to reverse the reverse Potemkin.
We're going to put content in our communications like I'm doing here.
We're going to put it, we're going to learn how to be intelligent together.
We're going to return this to our common experience and this,
our connection to the rest of the world and time and history, each other.
We're going to learn the dangers of language, the dangers of knowledge,
the dangers of representation, the dangers of technology.
We don't have to get rid of them.
We're going to learn the dangers of justice and defense.
We don't have to get rid of them.
We're going to reestablish this whole thing in our direct experience together
with and for each other.
Those are the key words.
We need to have a beautiful purpose here.
Their purpose is malign.
Okay.
Their purposes all are different.
Some of them are sort of good.
Some of them are, you know, not so great.
It depends.
But when they're bound together, they become purposive.
They are then a unity, sort of like that dolphin group swimming through the ocean.
Now they can repel any shark.
Individual dolphins might have a little trouble.
A pod, no problem.
No shark will take them.
And they have a leader.
They have a pod leader, right?
They're sort of playing this leapfrog game where each person's unique skills
bring the others into developmental expression, right?
Into learning.
And into sort of real victory and real glory instead of the phony victory
and the phony representational glory.
So by rewarding these behaviors in each other,
by paying attention to each other when we do things that are intelligent and beautiful
and human, that liberate minds and teach us,
and by not paying so much attention to the other things that one change alone,
we can start to build networks like this where we depend upon each other intimately.
And we become interdependent lives even across vast distances.
I already have many, many friends like this.
You are among them.
We are learning together right now.
This is an example of what I'm talking about.
Right now we're re-establishing this just by talking about it.
And it's really interesting because I'm actually, I'm kind of taking this away slowly.
I'm showing you like, here's the con.
Now there's another con they use, which is the reverse Pinocchio.
That's really simple to understand.
What it means is you take a real person and you convince them they can't compete against representations
like fashion models, rock stars, war heroes, film heroes, intellectual heroes, gurus,
spiritual heroes, psychics, scientists, computers, automobiles, iPods.
They can't compete.
Those things get attention, they don't.
And I mean it.
I mean, cars get attention while children die.
Cars are in garages all around here.
They're surrounding our city blocks just like viruses.
We build them.
They run us.
Do you pay insurance?
Just in case.
I just had a curiosity.
Are you paying money every month out of your work to support a monster thing that lives out,
that doesn't even live and kills children and the whole world's being destroyed for it?
Just out of curiosity.
Were you one of the owners of one of those?
Are you paying insurance on top of the environmental costs of that luxury that you use mostly for
one or two people in most cases probably?
Are you?
I don't want to accuse you, but think about it.
Are you paying extra to pay extra for extra and to steal the future for all living beings
by using the machine that has made our wars?
Are we all doing things like this without thinking?
We are.
We are to blame, but we don't have to just turn the tables around.
We will use all that as power to go forward.
We don't have to shoot anyone now.
We can have a revolution that happens overnight because we just start acting so intelligently
together that there's nothing to attack.
We'll transform history and all the mistakes we've made into fuel to bring us all rocketing
into evolutionary development, which is the nature of a biological system like Earth.
And to produce huge benefit yearly, massive intelligence benefit.
And we've been shunting all of that into reproduction of representations and machines.
And then burning it down to shunt it into that.
And then burning ourselves down to shunt it into that.
No.
No more of that.
We need each other.
We need this back.
So the reverse Pinocchio is you take a real person.
You convince them they can't compete with representation.
So they start becoming a representation even in their mind.
They make stories and fantasies without being anything really.
They don't learn how to become something.
