It creates victimized populations and our entire nation has been taken.
A variety of simultaneous Potemkin Village scams.
The answer to the Potemkin, it's like a chess match, right?
There's an opening.
They have different names.
The con games have different names.
I'm not a con man.
I'm an intelligence artist, as I said.
An intelligence artist like any good detective has to be very concerned with uncovering cons
because all of human culture is based on cons.
All of it.
All of it.
Even language, even everything.
So, if you want to be an intelligence artist to learn about con games,
don't con people with them.
What you want to do is reverse engineer them
and find out how to give the people back their power
so they can link up like this and not be like this and think,
I got to fight him.
He's the problem.
She's the problem.
They're the problem.
It's the homosexuals.
No, it's the liberals.
No, it's the people from that country.
No, it's the people with this skin color who don't have that skin color.
No, it's the people with money.
No, it's the demon-oriented people.
No, it's the religious people.
No, it's not any of those people.
You know what it is?
We don't count this.
So we don't know it.
But a dolphin pod is made of it.
It's one animal first.
If one of these animals gets stranded, they're all stranded.
Until that one's free.
Now, that sounds rough.
And it is.
But it also gives them powers of intelligence
unlike anything you and I would ordinarily be able to imagine in our wildest dreams.
And an intelligence artist watches nature
to learn how nature handles con men and menics.
And it's fascinating that nature has a lot of interesting ways of dealing with that.
Let's talk about this Potemkin.
Now, here's what happened in the United States.
They kind of reversed Potemkin, or excuse me,
they made a Potemkin village of the people themselves.
This was really audacious.
The way they did this was by diseducating you,
breaking you up with terror and lies,
telling you nonsense about nature,
nonsense about the nature of the universe,
nonsense about religion, nonsense about the new age.
And believe me, I mean nonsense, like stuff even kids wouldn't believe.
But the adults buy this stuff up like crazy.
The kids all know it's nuts.
They get involved in it because it's status toys.
It's status jewelry.
So they kind of wear it like status jewelry
and they like their costume, their representation of themselves.
The children are very aware of something.
In a place where you can't get enough attention
to out-compete a machine that your parents own,
you need to be a representation because that's the only thing they'll like.
And that makes for children who are broken.
It makes for adults who...
It makes for insanity.
Everyone just goes nuts and they all start blaming each other.
Meanwhile, these people, the head people, the D-head people,
they rock it up into ecstatic egotistical fulfillment.
Richard Branson, Elon Musk, people on the top of human success.
And we look up to them like they're gods.
They're actually crushing us down while they're rocketing upwards.
Now, Elon's an interesting case because he's a little more humanitarian.
But an ex-altruist, which is something we're going to talk about,
is a whole other kind of thing.
That is more like someone who can lift everybody else.
This is a concept coined by Andrea Kuzhevsky,
a researcher and a really amazing person who talks about
how we need the different kinds of diversity
and how even people who have sociopathic tendencies
or pathological tendencies can, in many cases,
become this kind of extreme hero or this altruist
which is not an ego at all necessarily, although it can be.
There's another kind of extreme altruist that's not a focused ego.
It's not one of these.
It's actually one of these.
It's not even one of these.
We'll talk about this, but in a minute.
Let's get back to the Potemkin Village.
So if you just really miseducate a population,
what you get is the facades of people.
They look like people.
You can tell them they have the rights of people
where they can't defend those rights so they don't have them.
You can tell them that they have the connections of people
but they don't really, they have machines which you control
so they don't have those.
You can tell them that they're animals
