Now, I know a lot about how intelligence works because I study the brain and I study the mind.
And I also study language very deeply and poetics.
So part of my study of poetics and storytelling is metaphor.
And our minds work with metaphor in an astonishing way, but we're not using the web that way, and we have to.
And it's the difference between a flat method of looking for information and a multi-dimensional method that is almost musical and alive.
It is dynamic by nature. We're using a dead, flat, tokenized way to chase information.
This is like looking up something in the index of a dictionary and then going to the page where that information is found and then reading that in a linear fashion.
That doesn't help us learn. It doesn't help us explore. It's a little bit exciting.
I agree that the Internet is wonderful, but it's flat and it's deadening, and the way we're using it is making us ignorant and Google intelligent.
It's rewarding us for ignorance inducing behavior in places like Facebook and Twitter and creating incredible caches of social intelligence for corporations.
They're going to be leveraged against the dumber and dumber people produced by these processes in the future as things like GPS teach us to fail to do map-making in our own minds,
which builds new kinds of memory, which are crucial for new forms of intelligence.
If we're going to interact with computers and machines all day, which we appear to be addicted to be doing, we need to be doing that in such a fashion that every time we touch one of those machines,
we are challenged and we are made smarter. Our intelligence is not mechanical.
If it is remade in the image of the habits that we currently have with technology, we will become too unthinkably ignorant to discover the catastrophic results of that ignorance,
and we will ramify them socially, those results, socially, ecologically, and relationally to ever more horrific outcomes.
We've got to avoid that. Our children depend on this. Our minds depend on it right now, and we can use these technologies right now to accomplish incredible leaps overnight.
A technology like Facebook can change the nature of human intelligence in a week. We're not using it that way yet, because we don't understand how to.
It's not as if we're waiting for someone to tell us, although there are a few people who might be able to, or at least to help us to discover how to, if not to show us how.
And they can help us to do that by helping us to see what we're not seeing, which is part of what I'm hoping to do here now.
And many of these technologies could give us the capacity to not only reframe human intelligence overnight, but to radically alter and resolve unthinkable problems that we face currently.
And instead of that, we're using them like a public bulletin board. That's not going to work.
And in fact, by using them that way, we are supporting causes that oppose our well-being, that oppose human rights, that oppose the survival of our few remaining ecologies, which are the basis of our minds, cultures, and health, the basis of our future.
If our bulletin board use is going to poison rivers, we have to stop. And if we're going to do anything electronic socially, and the outcome of that is going to be working against us, then whatever we do with that technology has to be absolutely effective and powerful.
So right now, the million horses of the powers of our agreement, our intelligence, our human social intelligence, are bridled. They're in their stalls. And every time they try to run, somebody pulls money out of them.
Instead of letting them run free and learning from every move they make, which is what I'm going to describe now.
So what we do now is we use a flat browser, which is ridiculous. We should be navigating through terrain that is dimensional. And the dimensions of that terrain would be metaphoric.
So that if you typed in a word, and you can set this up with templates for what kinds of things you're looking at, I'm not saying we'll get rid of flat browsing.
But we need to add something to it. We need to add ambiguity like we have when we go into our minds. And there's lots of ways we can do that.
When you type, I want you to imagine a set of rings. Let's say that there are two vertical rings on the sides, and a horizontal ring in the center or at the bottom.
And above the horizontal ring, there's a space you can type. And so you type your keywords in the space above the horizontal ring.
And this is an application that lives on your desktop. It replaces your browser. It's a knowledge browser. It doesn't just work with the internet.
It'll actually work with any kind of document on your desktop. But it uses a different idea. It uses a poetic mode of searching that helps you learn in a variety of different ways every time you search.
You can go ahead and do a straight database search if you want, like you do now, just by clicking a button.
But if you rather explore and you type in a phrase like origin of stars, well, over on the left-hand vertical ring, you might see a lot of words about origins and maybe some etymological terms above this display
that tell you the Latin and the Greek and possibly some other languages that you've set up, etymologies for those terms you've just typed in so that every time you type a word, you learn etymologically about that word every time you do a search.
And then over on the left and right, there are expansions, possible expansions you haven't thought of.
Now, these expansions are based on a little intelligence database that belongs particularly to you and to the users of your local machine. It can also belong to some of your friends. We'll get into that in a moment.
This little intelligence database is built every time you do anything with data on your computer.
And what it does is it learns about your mind, it learns about your preferences, it learns about what's important to you, much like Google might accept locally on your computer.
And it builds a linked database of those interests that it grows and connotates and instructs each time you do anything on your computer.
But definitely when you use the internet. And from that, it produces a variety of interesting options.
On the left side, you might get very experimental options that expand on your search ideas in little choosable rings that you can spin.
On the right side, you might get very denotative options, scientific options, options in theory, philosophical options.
And on the bottom in the ring that you can spin down there, we can put other kinds of expansion data, related ideas, images.
Now, we could actually set this up so that you can dive into it instead of just then hitting enter or picking a few options and changing your search.
This can be set up so that you can dive into it. And every time you use it, it builds your database.
Let me explain what's exciting about this idea. Every time you do any kind of a search, you're going to learn mad stuff that you never imagined.
In fact, that no one ever imagined. And it's going to be tailored not just to you, but to all of the people that use your machine.
And these little databases are worth money, lots of money. They are what we're being fleeced of by Facebook, by Google, by Twitter, by Pinterest, by Tumblr, by Vine, by all of the new, free, wonderful,
we thought they were liberating products. No, they're fleecing us of these little intelligence databases that they can't use as effectively as we can.
In fact, they can't use them one-one-thousandth as effectively as we can. And whatever kind of intelligence they're assembling will be evolved or developed or progressed.
I'm at a loss for a word here.
Will be radically improved. If we can improve our intelligence just a tiny percentage, what I'm talking about will improve our social intelligence, our intellectual intelligence, our creative intelligence in millions of ways.
I'm just showing you the surface of this product, but it will work creatively with artists, with imagery, with sound, with text, and it will link us in social networks that share our intelligence and allow us to link, share, sell, profit from, and grow our intelligence.
So imagine this. You start developing your little intelligence database by all the stuff you do on your computer, and this application lets you do all kinds of searches.
You can search any of your documents. You can search the internet. It interfaces with Google. It interfaces with all of your social networks, but it keeps all your data local to you.
You control it. Anything you create with this is controlled by you, and it'll have a social networking component whose data it can share based on your preferences alone, whose data you alone will own, and it will only be owned by you.
No one else will control it. No one else will tell you who's friend you can be or can't be. No one else will tell you what content you can or can't have.
And this will also be a form of intelligence that generates money for you, for your family, that generates resources for you and your family every time you use the internet, because right now all those resources are being stolen, and they're pretending to give us services, but they're not services.
They're prisons for our intelligence, and every time we use them, we get more ignorant, whereas every time we use this, we'll get more intelligent.
But that's just the beginning of it, because these little databases are profound. Let me explain. You can build rings of them with your friends so that you use your social intelligence to search documents, databases, and extension ideas from them.
This isn't easily assembled technology. With a team, I could build this product. In six months, we could have a working prototype for the available losses.
This is not the future. This is something we could have done ten years ago, but no peace thinking this way, because they're still thinking like 1940, and we're still using the internet like it's a dictionary.
And the most advanced people that we have have not thought of anything like this, and no one's even noticed that we should be navigating through information in a way that is astonishing, exciting, where every time we do it, we are learning amazing new things and increasing our intelligence and insight in the way we can link and
metify information, the way that we can derive and experience meaning. That's what the internet is at least for. Never mind the fantastic opportunities of using it as an intelligence prosthesis, which is something I'm not even going to talk about here.
I'm just talking about let's build a tool that leads us in that direction that no one's done yet, easy to do, anyone can do this. And this idea here that I'm describing is proof of a concept, right?
That we can build a knowledge browser that's far more encouraging. It's not denotative. It gives us connotations for our searches. It gives us suggestions that are unusual, that are built on intelligence.
Let me come back to these little database objects. You can share them in rings, but imagine being able to search with the intelligence of famous people, famous scientists, famous researchers, famous authors.
We'll be able to share the databases and sell those little database objects of intelligence in profound ways, and they can have orders of privacy, so that your database has one ring that's shared with anyone who wants some, another ring that's shared only with people who are acquaintances, another ring only for business, another ring only for family, another ring only for intimates.
We will own all our information. The other companies like Google and Facebook can still profit, but we will own these little databases and build our intelligence in ways nobody's even thinking about yet.
The future can be a lot more amazing than the tiny toy that I'm painting here, unless we believe that our role in the internet is the role of sheep.
And if that's the case, we're going to be fleeced by the wolves like Google and Twitter, Facebook, Tumblr, P interest, Vine, and so on.
And we're going to be owned by the hackers, the feral's. We're going to be owned by those people. We're going to be turned into leashed servants, and our governments, and these corporations.
No, no. We've got to build an application like this. We've got to learn and teach each other how to become more intelligent every time we touch technology.
And that means connecting to each other in ways with habits and goals and agreements that return our humanity, our ecological intelligence, and hope of an ecological future, our liberty, our human rights, our actual fellowship, because this is one single planet.
And our capacity to use the resources that we have worked so hard and that so many have died and been imprisoned to establish in ways so beautiful and powerful and insightful that we can change the meaning of human history and the possibilities of the human future, and we can do this today.
It requires only our agreement. If you know anyone who is interested in doing this right now, get in touch with me, and please think about using technology more intelligently every time you touch it, because until we do that, it represents a deadly danger.
It is competing with life on Earth and winning. Machines, photographs, little pieces of text and cars are winning against human lives, living places, the future of life on Earth and human intelligence.
This cannot proceed. It is our absolute obligation, a difficult and beautiful responsibility that we must together fulfill. Let us make that choice and that agreement today. And until we have accomplished it, let us nods down down. Thank you.
Thank you.
