Today is Thursday, December 5th. It's 326 a.m.
I don't really believe any of the things that I've heard about human nature.
In fact, I don't believe that anyone knows enough about human nature to speak intelligently about it.
Certainly not in the sense that we can say what it is.
The reason that's true is because most of what it is is by nature unspecified.
That is, we call it into existence an expression with a dance, a dance of relation.
And that dance can be intelligent or it can be something else.
We may not know exactly what intelligent dancing means, but like beauty, we know when we see it.
And like the difference between what we can almost immediately realize as false beauty or a representation of beauty,
like the difference between that and something we immediately know intimately as divine or deeply, truly beautiful, we can recognize this difference too.
That is, we can recognize the difference between something alive and a representation, at least if we stop to do so.
Now, we live in a time and a milieu where most of the opportunities are not presented.
And the opportunities that are presented are dangerous and parasitic, predatory, abusive.
They masquerade as they are mimics.
And their goal is to produce sheep, literally.
The more sheep that can be produced, the better all of these frameworks that we build cultures around function.
The more effectively they function for their goals, which we think are our goals, but are not.
They are the goals of beings of a kind that don't actually exist. They're theoretical beings. They're our collectives.
They're not us. They don't. They're not the sum of our ideas, hope, dreams, needs.
There's something rather spooky. They are like a giant ghost made of exaggerated pictures or images or representations or tokens of ideas and language,
both of which are not inhabitable. They are toys of seeing at best. They're not laws or truth. Truth is alive or it's not.
Now, this might sound like a very philosophical conversation before I talk about the internet and how we relate with it.
Except that the internet and how we relate with it is deeply instructing the nature of human intelligence, our future.
It's also deeply instructing the nature and future of life on earth in ways that we are unprepared to examine so far.
And part of the reason we are unprepared is that our collectives, whether intentionally or not, whether by conspiracy or just by their actual nature,
when unguided by our intelligence and intention, when unguided by our wise and insightful agreement, our collectives become poisonous and toxic.
It's not very surprising our own teenagers and children will do the same things.
But if they had the power and hubris and resources of our collectives, the outcomes of even relatively minor misbehavior of our children or teens or even adults who misbehave,
would be much more catastrophic and possibly even world-threatening, which the behavior of our collectives is.
Now, the reason that I want to talk about this is simple. I'm very, very concerned with a single thing, intelligence,
and what it means and looks like, not really defining it, becoming it together right now in ways that we haven't been thinking about because we've never really had a chance to,
and also because the pressure of our cultures pushes us toward being sheep.
This is starting to change right now in our time, dramatically, all over the world.
But in other places, there's almost a reverse, well, there are a set of forces that oppose that change very directly because, for obvious reasons, they're threatened by it.
Not only is their current power threatened by it, their image in all of history is threatened by it because if mankind were to suddenly even take a minor step up in our relational intelligence,
our ecological intelligence, our linguistic intelligence, and how we relate with language and knowledge, and how we relate with technology,
we would look back on history suddenly and realize we'd been gravely and horribly mistaken, and most of our many, many of our heroes would become villains.
And this is actually the problem when you've been incorrigibly stupid in a public and kind of prideful way for a long period of time, much as our own nation has,
and particularly now. Well, the interesting problem here is that we happen to have sort of invented the Internet, and as the birthplace of the Internet, we have responsibilities,
and we're not serving them well at all. I'm going to demonstrate both how we are not, what the dangers of that are, and what some of the opportunities are.
I'm going to show you a set of visions that I think will help you to see and think about our relationships with language, knowledge, nature, social intelligence, technology,
information in the Internet in a very different way, in a simple way. There was a lot of words there, that was a big list I know, but it won't be that complex even though my talk will probably be long.
And I'm going to ask you to bear with me, and I'm going to apologize in advance. I'm improvising, and although I've given these topics a great deal of thought and I believe I have some insight on them,
I'm not pretending that I know what other forward thinking people have done or are thinking. I only know some simple facts that I can demonstrate easily.
I'm going to try to do some of that right now. So we are an unusual species, and one of the things that's unusual about us is we've developed the capacity to translate what would ordinarily be physical evolution
and also relational evolution, which includes our relation with nature, into technological evolution. In other words, representations or functions.
So instead of undergoing this physical evolution that we might undergo or the relational evolution, which includes intelligence, we undergo technological evolution, and we can't see what is sacrificed in that process.
Similarly, we're looking at a process of amputation and then replacement with tokens. This would be like Paris the Thought, someone killing their child and then getting a doll of them and relating with the doll instead of the child,
and thinking that that was actually better than the child. Now this is what we do, in fact, with our minds. And if you were to ever see the living thing that your and most people's minds is a doll of,
I realize it's an incredibly arrogant thing to say. I think you would be shocked to tears and laughter, possibly collapse, and you'd also be very relieved to discover that your mind had become, there was still a living, shining, astonishing,
unthinkably intelligent, prodigious being that you were born as. And our cultures are really trying to take that away from us and sell us things like jobs and classroom educations, dead environments, sophisticated machines, text messaging, and amputations.
We're getting the representation of the internet is becoming that. I'm going to show you why I think that's a problem. So the first thing is, we haven't been examining this thing about our species that we inhibit our evolution in order to produce representations and technologies, cities,
new kinds of cars, new kinds of computers, new kinds of communications technologies, which each of which come out of having amputated something alive and created a sort of a chasm in our lives, which we then bridge with this function, this technology, this job, this work, this political idea, this government, this prosecution, this courtroom.
Where we declare what things are in such a way that we must become those declarations and thereby die to our intelligence, die to our ecologies, our social relations, our filial relations with our families, and even our internal relations with all the myriad faculties of our native intelligence.
Now the internet and computers are a huge part of this process in this moment. And as the last parts of nature are being assassinated, and our last chances to communicate with what the internet is an abstraction of, which actually is a forest,
an incredibly ancient, transcendent network of living beings that was easily interfaced with through a million different opportunities. Now that that is disappearing, we're getting a representation of a kind of a library intelligence, and that's what the internet is.
We think it's sort of a library of information, but it isn't that. Because in the same way that the forest wasn't a library of information, but a living network of up to the moment intelligence sensing that can actually read the future and reinterpret the past in ways that result in ongoing,
shocking leaps of evolutionarily expressed intelligence and relationally expressed prodigy. Instead of that, we're getting a bookstore, the dead thing. Now a bookstore is a wonderful thing in its own way, but the internet isn't a bookstore in the same way that the forest wasn't a bookstore.
The internet is an intelligent web of beings that together form an extension to your mind, and that extension has capacities that you cannot imagine in your wildest dreams.
And what's happening right now, because we're very naive and young and we can't see the future, we don't, most people do not use the internet this way, most people cannot use a forest this way either, but there are many who can.
And there are people who use the internet this way, and people who use things like Google or Facebook to gain experiences of insight and prodigy that are effectively impossible for other people to even get a taste out of because they've been made into sheep by the models and practices, the habits,
and the way that we sort of encourage each other to use technology instead of the way that we invite or could invite each other to use our intelligence, our relationships with language, knowledge, nature, each other and technology.
I'm going to show you how backwards we are. We're still thinking about the internet, like it's a library, and we treat it that way, mostly. We're now beginning to use it as a social interface, but primarily we think of it as a library or a bookstore, and then also as a place to kind of leave our mark, like dogs,
or wandering around a park, making marks on trees. That part's pretty interesting, and so is the library part, but it's grossly incomplete, and I'm going to show you why.
Now, internet time is different. It's a different sort of rate of time. The internet evolves at a different rate of speed because it has so many billions of users per day per minute than other forms of relational time or social time or even technological developmental time for products.
The internet develops at a fast rate of speed so that we might imagine that a year of internet time is worth, I don't know, maybe ten years of ordinary time.
I'm going to go deeply into that at the moment, but what I want to say is this, twenty years into the internet, we're using a flat browser, and no one's even commented on this.
I've seen some experiments with, you know, star chart, like two-dimensional things, but why are we using a flat browser? Why don't we drive through information?
Why, in fact, why every time we use the internet do we kind of get dumber? And our communications, well, there's a range, okay, there's a spectrum, but the low end of the spectrum is growing dramatically, and the high end doesn't seem to be growing quite as dramatically.
So there seems to be a kind of intelligence sink where a lot of unintelligent behavior is extremely well rewarded. That's very dangerous.
In fact, behavior that doesn't lead toward greater intelligence is very well rewarded, and that's very dangerous.
Now, again, there's a good spectrum, but the high end of that stuff, the behavior that calls us toward greater intelligence every time we interact with it, and that is really exciting, is uncommon.
And here's part of the reason. We've got the wrong idea about what the internet is and how to use it. The internet isn't the encyclopedia Britannica. The internet is new intelligence opportunities every time we touch it.
So we have to have a way to get smarter every time we touch our cell phone if we're going to. I don't have one, by the way. I never have. I study them. I have an iPod to study the phenomenon, but I don't use a cell phone and I never have, even though I'm a technology consultant.
And I've been working with technology like computers since they were invented in the 1980s, and teaching people and watching their effects on people, my family, my own life.
So I'm very, very close to this phenomenon. I'm a programmer, not an expert, but I've been coding for many years.
And I'm going to just show you a couple of things about how we're using the internet that are completely backwards and are inventing new kinds of sheep instead of inventing new kinds of humans, social and relational, intellectual and ecological intelligence.
So we're using a flat browser 20 years into the internet, and no one's even really mentioned that fact. And the way that we do it is we're using it like an index.
So Google builds this big index out of our activity, mostly, and a lot of web crawling, apparently.
And then we search that with keywords, and we link things together with keywords, and that's all right, I guess.
But the idea that we're using a flat browser and the way that we're using the internet, as if it were a dictionary, is wrong.
We should be using it as if it were our own minds or as if it were an intelligence. And that means we need both ways of doing that together
and also applications that not only encourage that, they entice us into it every time we come near them.
So I want you to imagine a different kind of browser with me for a minute.
And what I'm going to show you would destroy Facebook utterly and would destroy Google.
And before I say anything further about this, I want to say two things.
Those two companies are fleecing us madly, and they are not making us more intelligent.
What they are doing is reaping the benefits of our attentional intelligence and composing both forms of power, financial power, social power, ecological power,
and they're deploying those powers to keep us in a position of servitude and of being able to produce for them some more.
That's wrong. The data caches that Facebook and Google own, we build.
This is actually much worse than if we were the Jews in Egypt building the pyramids, as is rumored to have happened, whether or not that's true.
This is a kind of theft, and the results, both first of all the form of which is absolutely unconscionable,
and will destroy our intelligence if we allow it to proceed, because it must just to survive.
And it's also the results of it are unthinkably catastrophic in the future.
We could never allow a corporation to have such power or to own the assets that we assemble this way under any circumstances.
We must absolutely take back the data caches of Facebook and Google for the sake of human intelligence, human social infrastructure,
and organization, liberation, human rights.
The same thing with the knowledge cache of Google. That's a cache we built.
There's no corporation that can own that. It's like owning an aspect of our own minds.
So I'm going to show you a product that's going to help you to see why this is a problem by showing you what we do when we're actually using the web.
