a flat thing you get out of a dictionary. A metaphor is a growing constellation of
related ideas, images, possibilities, conflicting ideas, concepts, historical
data, speculative data about the future. When we can begin to interact with the
internet in a metaphoric framework our intelligence is going to radically change
and it will enhance, nourish, and grow our intelligence instead of limiting and
inhibiting it. So the first part of the knowledge amp is the new browser paradigm
and I can show you some models of that later but what's really important is
underneath that. Underneath that we have some assets that are incredible that
are nothing like we possess now. The first one of them is a personal
intelligence amplifier. Essentially what it does is it learns everything you do.
It learns your interests, it watches what you type, it knows your own typing style,
it knows your vocal style, it will learn and observe you forensically but not
for the purposes of helping authorities prosecute you. For the purposes of
helping you to enhance your own intelligence. In other words, what it
learns about you will feed into the browser and help you fill those
connotative aspects that surround your search terms and it will do that ever
more intelligently each time you use it. Now that's pretty exciting by itself but
there's something even more exciting which is that as this asset grows it
becomes incredibly valuable and again it'll have a personal, what is the right
word here? A personal element, a closely knit element for people who are close to
you and your family and friends, very close friends and then a close social
network element and then a communal element. All of these will inform and
teach each other and the social network and communal elements will be shared
right so that they can, we will actually learn from other people learning. Each one
of these will give us a personal intelligence assistant that is unique
to our own minds, also our own families and friends, but it will also help us
build extended kinds of intelligence that are wide ranging, rapidly self-correcting
and re-informing and shared amongst everyone who uses the internet. Currently
we have nothing like that. The power of this one little personal, personal
intelligence storage device and development device is unthinkable. What
will happen over a few years is that this will become so valuable that
basically corporations will rent time touching just the aspects that you'll
allow them to see in order to build their own versions of lesser intelligence
that they can use for the purposes they use. Meanwhile this will serve only the
purposes that interest us and will give us powers of sensing, understanding and
analyzing information that no one, no ordinary person normally has. In other
words we will get forensic intelligence. We'll be able to examine our own text and
learn all kinds of things about how we write, how we could write differently.
We'll be able to examine our own communications and learn all kinds of
things about that. We'll develop new ways of learning by linking these little
intelligence artifacts together. They are built from surveillance and they
surveil us for purposes that agree with our own goals, creativity, education,
protection, democracy and intelligence instead of feeding corporations who
build comparatively incredibly crude analogs of this that are used primarily
just to sell us stuff. So the personal intelligence asset will be built by
watching what we do with data. When we write emails, when we type, when we speak,
when we watch videos, when we do searches, it will learn and know about our
own minds and it will also assistively help us to expand our own capacities
every time we do anything. So that's one of the underlying elements. Another one
is we will do our own social networking. No one else will control that. We will get
all of the data that is available from our social interactions and
the networks that we form instead of corporations getting it. We will be able
to benefit from that data and use it in ways that benefit us, our intelligence
and our ability to reach out and form communities that are powerful and that
can change the world, that can actually address the problems that many of the
problems and challenges that we face. The third aspect is really amazing. It's
what I call the bedding sentinel. What this will do is allow us to radically,
forensically analyze any piece of data on the internet, a political speech, a
video, an image, any kind of writing, any kind of meme and we will be able to learn
all kinds of amazing things about those objects that will help us determine
whether they are trustworthy, whether they were copied, what their purposes were,
what their sources were, not just presently but in history and it will
also allow us to build a system where we value information that is intelligent
and truthful and information that is copied and mimicked or that is
basically propaganda and lies will get devalued. We will be able to look at
written information or even speeches and immediately determine that someone is
lying, that they're using a fallacy to convince us, that they're manipulating our
emotions or that they've invented some idea and are claiming that it is science
or religion or truth when actually it's just something they made up. In other
words, the vetting sentinel will act as a way to filter the internet at first but
then to actually reforge it so that what we get are more and more kinds of
really valuable truthful and trustful information, trustworthy information and
less kinds of information that mimic that, that manipulate us, that are
propaganda. We're going to out the mimics. In other words, we're going to easily be
able to see when people are lying, when they've copied something, when there's
false content involved, if it was photoshopped or changed from an actual
photograph. We're going to get all kinds of forensic data just like the CIA would
get or an intelligence organization but we'll be able to use it for our own
purposes to increase our own and we will learn these methods as we play with
them so that we're going to become like detectives except we're not going to
have to practice. It's going to happen just when we use the internet. So the
vetting sentinel is crucially important. It's going to give us the ability to act
intelligently with data and to tell when we're being manipulated. It's going to
give us the ability to sort of score trusted authorities, to build trusted
authority networks for information, images and all of the kinds of
electronic data that we currently interact with. One of the sort of the final
piece on the side, all these link together by the way, the final piece is
that we're going to be able to form teams and we're going to have heroic
identities because as we use the internet and we're going to build these
assets together with our own interactions, as we use the internet
we're going to be able to have a role. That's a different thing from a job or a
function. A role is a thing like a super hero or a sports team hero or a famous
researcher. Each time we interact with the internet we will each get credit and
our social networks and our public networks for all of the information that
we create for the new forms of intelligence that we create. And so we're
going to be able to form amazing little teams that can work together immediately
to solve problems that have been completely untouched and insolvable in our
current method of doing things. We're going to get heroic roles and we're
going to be able to have identities that aren't just a name tied to social
security number that you get taxed for. We're going to have identities that
