become heroic teachers, leaders, problem solvers and members of teams that
actually radically transform human cultures that solve problems that have
been insoluble for basically since the beginning of time. And we're going to be
able to do this so fluidly and so rapidly that it's going to shock people to see
how quickly we can actually resolve problems when we're able to organize,
unify, magnify our intelligence using assets like these. Something like this
can be built in six months. We can be using the internet in such a shocking
way that it's going to be as if we're having a knowledge adventure together
that's noble, heroic and solves problems every time we use the internet. The
vetting sentinel itself, the part of the structure that helps us to
forensically analyze data, we're going to build the assets that will allow us
to create that. And so various kinds of experts will help us to examine media
so that we can see visual data that gives us clues about whether people are
telling the truth, whether they're not, whether they're nervous, whether they're
anxious, what their purposes probably are. Textual data that tells us whether
these statements are trustworthy, whether they're based on fallacies, if
they're copied from some other source, if they're not original, if they are
original and are intelligent, we're going to be able to recreate the internet
because what will happen is a value system will emerge where data that's
really intelligent and users that are creating powerful content and really
contributing will get promoted, right? And all of the people who and
corporations and false collectives that are mimicking stuff, making stuff up and
pretending it's science using scares and outrage to sell journalism and things
like this, those are going to disappear. But not only that, once we start being
able to interact with this in this way together, we're going to be able to change
our cultures overnight. Our governments won't survive this, okay? There's no way
we're going to be able to ever be crushed down and converted by false
authorities to slaves, prisoners, spectators and consumers. Now, this is a
brief taste of the powers of the knowledge. What it's for is essentially
it's an intelligence synthesizer. We're going to make the music of human
intelligence together in a way we've never been able to do in any context
we've ever experienced. And we're going to be able to do it naturally, mostly
just by talking to each other and watching and learning and reading the
things we want to learn. We're not going to have to have an extra job or
anything. This is just going to help us do this naturally by taking advantage of
all of the thousands of minds and all of the activity that we produce every
day, organizing that activity into new forms of intelligence that we can share,
that we can locally possess, control, modulate, play with, pioneer, explore and
create. When we get to play with this, you're going to see that our minds are
nothing like what we've been shown. We have the capacity to dream together in
data in ways that will produce entirely new forms of learning and
intelligence. And every child, every ordinary person, every grandmother or
grandfather will have immediate access to these features. And these
experiences are going to change what it means to have a mind. They're going to
change what it means to be a culture. They're going to give us the ability to
immediately isolate and solve problems that have remained completely untouchable
in our current systems. I hope that you're as excited as I am about this. I'm
working as hard as I can to get the original models down so that we can
begin building it. But I just wanted to give you a little bit of a taste of
what I think is in store for us. Thank you for joining me. I look forward to
learning together and to changing the nature of human intelligence, human
social relation and our ability to use the internet. We're going to rebuild the
internet in the image of the possibility of human super function, not the image
of a dictionary. Thanks for joining me. Bye bye for now.
