my culture think of this, that's a kind of self-imposed simulated surveillance.
So much of our intelligence actually has to do with astonishing forms of
surveillance that we don't get to experience ordinarily in our
relationships with with electronic technology but we should. Of course we
do get a little bit because our friends see like what we post and we think about
like what will my friends think if I post this stuff like that. That's again a
kind of simulated self-surveillance. So what I get out here is that surveillance
is an asset that we can use to build new forms of intelligence, new minds, new
ways of relating with each other, with problems that we face as human persons
and cultures, with some of the problems that our species faces in terms of
dealing with our relationships with technology and nature. Surveillance is
an astonishingly powerful asset and it's been completely misused against us.
Now what happens when you establish a bunch of false authorities like the NSA,
Google and Facebook is that that actually affects the structure and
development of our minds, our relationships and our intelligence. What
that means is that we will get damaged minds especially when we know that
there are surveillance authorities that want to prosecute us watching our
every move. That actually will produce a kind of a schizophrenic situation, a
very dangerous situation in which we begin to form minds in the likenesses of
our expectations of prosecution, our expectations of being constantly
observed. We can't be human in that milieu. We've got to do something
different than that. So there's another form of surveillance that you're
probably very familiar with and that is the kind that happens in little
tightly knit teams that have a very important goal that they all care a lot
about or maybe even practice producing. One simple example of that is a
sports team. A sports team is an intimately linked together pod-like
intelligence where all the members are constantly in incredibly close
surveillance and attention and mutual super function. In other words they go
beyond the normal function available to ordinary people into a domain of
incredible ability and almost divine seeming powers of perception, action
and accomplishment. What I want to do is give us that same kind of ability, that
same species of ability but within for each other to build new forms of
intelligence and to solve actual problems in the world instead of get
scores on scoreboards and win money. We can do this very easily actually. So the
idea that I have will first of all give us a new way of browsing and secondly it
will build some assets that belong to us both personally and communally not to
corporations. These assets will be assembled by and for us for purposes
that we believe in that are authentic to our humanity that help to protect each
other from various kinds of false collectives, false authorities, people who
want us to believe things that aren't true, who want to convert us to resources
that they can use for ensuring their dominance, their reproduction, things
like Monsanto, Google, Facebook. These are false collectives that do not exist in
our interest. They exist in the interest of generating profits for shareholders,
their fictions. When they convert us to resources we become fictional people. When
corporations assault the environment and wipe out the history, the historical
sort of assets of life on earth, our own minds and futures are destroyed and our
humanity is stained because we know intrinsically the value of nature. And when
we see it wiped out and turned into abstractions in bank accounts, what's
going on is we're being wiped out, the future is being destroyed and it's all
for the purpose of a big network of lies essentially. We can reverse that and
here's how we can do it. Firstly we're going to build a browser unlike anything
anyone's ever seen. What it's going to do is it's going to learn how we learn and
it's going to do that for each one of us but also communally in an extensible
array of networked relationships. Firstly you'll have your personal aspect. These
are the things that only you know and that are only known about you by you and
then outside of that you'll have stuff that you will allow friends and
family, very close people to know and then outside of that a more closely knit
social network and then outside of that the community as a whole. It'll have
each of these kinds of scales of privacy built in to the intelligence unit that
drives this process. The browser itself, I'll come back to that in a minute and
explain it more carefully. We're going to have to compete a little bit with some
traffic because it's early morning here. The browser itself is going to work
completely different from what we're currently using. The way that our minds
work is nothing like how we think. They work very creatively so that when we have
an idea it gets connotated. It gets surrounded by all kinds of connotations,
memories, feelings, pieces of dreams, art we have encountered, stories we have
encountered, myths, religious ideas, belief systems. When we have an idea it's a
radical network of things. It's not a word that links to a list. It was never
like that. So what we're going to do is we're going to build a browser that works
a little more like our minds and here's how it will look. On one side you'll have
a spinnable wheel that will have image-based data that is related to
whatever you've typed in your search box. On the other side you'll have a
spinnable wheel that will have text-based data that will similarly
relate to things in the text box. Underneath that you'll have data that
both enhances and opposes and also connects both of those kinds of data
into a small constellation like object that sits underneath your search box
that you can modulate so that you can bring certain features into prominence
or reduce them into the background and you can also travel into it by picking
one of those or a set of them and replacing this current search term
with that. That will give us the ability to travel into ideas and to explore in
astonishing ways that are more like metaphors. Metaphors are actually the
sort of closer to the basis of human intelligence than definitions. What we're
currently using are systems that are based on definitions. That doesn't work.
It does allow us to use the internet like a dictionary. It doesn't allow us to
relate with information the way our minds do. So what we're going to do is
we're going to build this browser that gives us this incredible way to sort of
creatively spin, reconnect, recontinate, and constolate all kinds of
information that's related to and even opposing whatever we type in. We'll still
be able to get flat results if we want but we're going to have a knowledge
adventure every time we interact with any kind of information. Above the search
bar we'll have some linguistic analysis of what we've typed in on the left side
maybe and excitingly on the right side every time we type in words we'll see
the etymological history, how these words were made, what they come
from, what meanings in original languages were, and we'll be able to determine
which languages we see the etymology for. What that means is that every time we
use language we will begin to learn about language like a linguist or a
forensic expert but we won't have to study it. It'll happen just by
interacting with our browser. Meanwhile we'll learn how to produce metaphor-like
relationships with knowledge instead of definition-like. I mean the difference
between a definition and a metaphor is shocking. A definition is really just like
