Hi, my name is Darren Stevenson. I'm probably watching my YouTube channel. You
can find me on Facebook as the Darren Stevenson in San Francisco. I have a
blog at wondercloud.wordpress.com and I also have a website called organelle.org.
I'd like to talk to you today about a revolutionary technology that I've been
working on for about six months now. Essentially the goal of the technology
is to give to ordinary people the ability to use electronic information in
entirely new ways together, ways so radical that they will actually develop
new forms of human intelligence and new roles for everyone who uses it. I'm
calling the idea the knowledge amp because what it does is effectively it
collectively magnifies the intelligence of human users who touch data on the
internet. Presently the way that we use the internet is pretty backwards. What
happens is there's swarms of information. None of it is valued in terms of its
accuracy or dependability and a lot of it is copied. I don't know what the exact
percentage is but vast amounts of the information that we see on the internet
are basically just copied. A lot of it's very poor quality, a lot of it is just
false. There's an incredible amount of propaganda from false collectives, false
forms of intelligence and basically just outright lies and we have no way to kind
of tell the difference between any of this stuff or to interact with it very
intelligently. What we do currently is when we interact on the internet that
builds new forms of intelligence for corporations like Facebook, Twitter,
Google and YouTube. What I want to do is turn that around so that when we interact
with each other and with data on the internet it builds new forms of
intelligence for us, not for them and then if they want some of that
intelligence they can rent or purchase it from us instead of fleecing us of the
intelligence we generate by our activity and then selling us back tiny little
pieces of that that make them lots of profit and don't make us more
intelligent. Let me explain the difference between what I'm thinking about and
what we're doing presently. We're about 20 years into the birth of the
internet and in internet time which is accelerated that's more like about
300 years. The really weird thing about that is that 20 years in we are using a
flat browser to access the internet in a way that is essentially like a
dictionary except it's worse because the search engines organize the results
based on popularity. Anyone who understands intelligence and rhetoric
realizes that popularity is no kind of measure of the value of data and in
fact it can be grossly misleading. Additionally when corporations are the
people who tell us which data is important and which isn't what we end up
with is an incredibly skewed base from which to to get data and to look for
results. I want to change all that in the most radical and shocking way that I
think you're going to find very exciting. So here's what we're going to do
instead. First of all we're going to change the browser so that it works more
like our minds. Our minds do not work like a dictionary. When you want to
think or dream or create you don't get an idea in your head do a search and then
get a flat series of results in a list. When you do that because our because the
internet is a metaphor for our minds when we do it this way we're actually
damaging our intelligence. We're retraining it to work in a way that's
nothing like nature. Nothing like our minds. Nothing like memory or our
intellects. And by the way it's very important here to understand that memory
is nothing like storage. If it were we wouldn't dream and the interesting
thing about our dreaming is that if we don't dream we don't learn. Not only
not only do we not learn if we don't dream we die. Our bodies stop being able
to regulate their homeostatic metabolism and we will just perish of this. So the
internet has been retraining us in very cruel and kind of crippling ways to
depend upon mechanical algorithms, mechanical processes, mechanical
functions that actually not just limit our intelligence they attack it and
replace it remake it in the forms that have nothing to do with what our
actual capacities are. How would we turn this around? Well the way that we can do
that is really exciting. Let me explain a little bit. Firstly we're going to
build an entirely new kind of browser. Actually I'm going to back up a little
bit. Before I get to the browser I want to talk about a very specific and
interesting feature of our current electronic situation. That feature is
surveillance. Most of us realize that Facebook, Google and then intelligence
agencies like the NSA and those of other governments are surveilling us
constantly and their purposes in surveilling us are not to make us more
intelligent or to give us new assets that we can really use beneficially.
Mostly they are to give them new kinds of intelligence new assets that they can
use to figure out how to sell us stuff or in the case of the government how to
pre-prosecute us which is a terrifying idea. Let me talk a little bit about the
power of surveillance. It sounds like a really scary word and nobody really
wants to be recorded. Right now what's going on is that everything we do on the
internet from our emails and our private conversations, our video calls, all of the
activity that we do, our searches and what we choose and like and share, all
that's being recorded and abstracted into ways to link us into networks that
tell people how to sell us things better, what we're interested in and also how to
manipulate us really easily. We need to reverse that trend. Now here's the
exciting part of this idea. Although the idea of surveillance sounds frightening
and it is because frankly we can't survive recording all of what humans do,
that creates huge waves of data that have to be recorded, backed up, analyzed
and etc. That's just not going to work. We have to compete against that data. In
other words the United States government will preserve the data that the NSA has
on you before they will preserve you, your family or your life. You will have to
pay to get health care but they pay to preserve your data including that
health care data. See how dangerous that is? What that means is that we're
actually being converted to resources, to data objects and we have to compete
against those for survival and we will lose. We're already losing even now. I'm
talking about the future. I'm talking about right now. We've got to reverse this
trend and one of the ways that we can do that is by understanding how surveillance
works better. If anyone's ever seen a child in their room, especially a child
who is struggling to learn language, what you're going to notice is some
astonishing phenomenon. The children set up essentially a surveillance
environment. Now of course the home is a surveillance environment. The parents
surveil the children. The children are aware of this surveillance. The parents,
the mode of surveillance of the parents is loving, encouraging, it's learning
oriented and it's protective. So what we have there is a surveillance
environment where there are a lot of positive inputs and the surveillance
produces actually minds. Our minds are born in a sort of relational milieu
where above us there are these kinds of God-like beings, the parents and our
families. Around us there are friends and peers and children of our own age but
we also have often these very strange aspects called imaginary friends. What's
interesting about this is that minds have a lot to do with surveillance. When you
do something you think about well what will my friends think of this or what
