Hi, thank you for joining me. My name is Darren Stevenson. You can find me on
Facebook as the Darren Stevenson in San Francisco. I also run the website
organelle.org which is the kind of fossilized remains of my developmental
paths and speculations. And some of my writing can be found on my blog at
wondercloud.wordpress.com. I've been talking and thinking a lot lately about
false collectives and how people and groups including our social networks
get converted to assets and resources for purposes and fictional agendas that we
would ordinarily have nothing to do with and never allow. We would never allow
them to even exist, never mind proceed. It's really easy for us to be confused
and fleeced in a sense by the milieu in which we're presently involved. The
internet itself can be leveraged as a sort of Potemkin village. This is a
situation where you set up an empty city or habitable terrain and then as
people move into that terrain thinking they're getting something for free, you
actually fleece them of all kinds of resources they brought with them and then
you convert them to purposes that they would never ordinarily serve. I'm going
to talk a lot about that right now and I'm going to specifically focus on the
idea of electronic activism. A lot of what we have in our social networks
particularly in places like Facebook and Google Plus are confusing situations
where this is more much more common on Facebook where we have what appear to be
activist organizations or groups or pages that are actually serving entirely
the other kinds of purposes. In other words, purposes that are not oriented
toward our education, our unification, our empowerment and they don't help us
actually change the problems that they're making money talking about. In fact,
in many cases they pour cash into the coffers of those people's groups and
forces that they seem to be sort of heroically opposing. Now some of the
activist pages on Facebook are much worse about this than others. There's one I'm
going to single out particularly. It's a group called Sustainable Man. This is a
guy named Chris Agnos and his brother who've apparently invested large sums
of money to produce a publicly sort of pseudo famous little page there where
they get hundreds of thousands of views and the articles they post are often
copied hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands or even millions of times. These
people are not informed about the nature of activism at all and in fact what they
have there is a business. Many of the things that they post that are copied
hundreds or thousands or millions of times, they don't even care that that
process is obliterating living beings in the environment. They think it's just
free to make electronic nonsense, memes and things like that that fail to
empower us, that pay the forces that they seem to think they are opposing lots of
money and Facebook is one of those forces and that largely just kind of
propagate a false armchair reactivity or back you know mutual back patting and
false activism. That's a deadly process because it has a lot of effects that
nobody's examining. The first is that the media that they're spreading doesn't
actually make us more intelligent. It doesn't bring us together with new ways
of knowing, seeing and acting in unison to to effect change rapidly. It doesn't
resolve the problems that they often post in the light of and in many cases the
things that they're posting if they were actually followed through as real ideas
or processes would be so incredibly misfounded that they would cause more
harm than the sort of fake good that they seem to be advertising. One of the
problems with people in organizations like this is they have no interest in
correcting their behavior whatsoever. In fact, riding on the wave of their own
popularity and fame, they simply just go deeper and deeper and deeper into the
business model of false activism and there are of course authentic collectives
and authentic activists which I'm going to speak toward in a little while but
right now what I really want to highlight are some problems that are
being wildly overlooked. The first problem is that when we pay attention to
media, we say the word pay attention, we are actually paying something. So we
may think that it's free or that there's no result from our constant and ceaseless
liking and clicking and sort of chiming in or leaving our two cents. Actually
those things have huge costs. Human attention is one of the most valuable
resources on the planet. When we misspend it, we not only lose the capacity to
spend it wildly, but we spend it in ways that support processes, people, and
cultures that are attacking the things they are pretending to protect. When
that happens, we all become dumb, literally. Our intelligence takes a
massive hit. We are not allowed to form intelligent, effective collectives. We
get a pressure valve like situation that bleeds our attention off to make
profits and popularity for people and processes that are opposing our actual
goals as people who care about each other. Our intelligence, our children, our
environment in the future. After attempting to talk to the people at
Sustainable Man, they basically just insulted me and said that they didn't
like my attitude. Well, I don't like them spending tens or 20 or hundreds of
thousands of dollars. I don't like them spending the attention of millions of
people to promote memes and little electronic pieces of garbage that get
copied a million times and have zero effect on the problem. If one of us is
wrong, me or them, I invite you to make your own decision. Here I am talking
about a way that we can learn how to not be taken in by this. And there they are
saying, I have a bad attitude. One of us is probably incorrect. I'm sure you can
make the right decision about that. Do your own research comes to your own
conclusions. So when we pay attention to media from falsely oriented
collectives or collectives who are either so ignorant or so driven by the
market and by popularity, that they're not required to check what they're
doing or even determine if it's works or is dangerous or what the outcomes are.
They just sort of roll ahead on their profits and popularity. When that
happens, everybody loses. Everybody. Even the people who are organizing that are
losing because they probably have good intentions, right? They're probably not
intentionally destroying the agenda of activism and our hope of doing something
about the environmental problems that we've got to solve immediately, of doing
something about the fact that we're all serving and being converted to assets for
false collectives. They're probably not bad people. They probably really care
about all these things. But because they're so popular and they've got so much
backing of constant millions of likes and shares and all of this, they're just
not required to even take a look and see if they're doing anything wrong. And
whenever someone comes along who says, hey, you know, the cost of what you're
doing could easily exceed any possible benefit that you might generate, they
don't care. Then there's another problem which is this. When an image or video or
any kind of media gets copied thousands or millions of times, that copying doesn't
tend to make us intelligent. It doesn't bring us together. It rarely gives us
outlooks and perspectives that we can use together to become more intelligent, to
make better choices, and actually to effectively, forcibly oppose the
problems and the collectives and the forces that are wiping us out, turning
us into slaves, fleecing us and essentially repurposing our humanity. That's
what's going on here. Our actual human existence is being repurposed invisibly
