for the benefit of corporations, the GOP, Facebook, Google, fictional
collectives that have no real existence other than as corporations or
corpse orations. Corporations are a lethal kind of false collective that we
need to be extremely cautious about supporting in any way, and that we also
need to be able to dissolve, punish or obliterate when they go haywire and
become lethal in their activities. When we share media, even a single image, it
has a cost that grows over time. As that piece of media is copied, shared, as we
pay attention to it, and as we spend electricity and storage media to store,
backup, transmit, share, but also to examine and analyze, because as we know,
many governments now have intelligence assets that gather all of the things that
we share, and they examine them to see if those things pose some kind of a
threat. So every time we're sharing any kind of media, the number of ways in
which the deadly costs of doing that increase grows. In other words, not just
the costs grow, but the numbers of ways in which those costs expand also grow.
We need to be very carefully aware of that, and we also need some solutions to
keep that from continuing to happen, because as more and more of us share
electronic images as part of our relationships online, we're actually
building a giant wave of data that just keeps growing geometrically with each,
you know, passing interval. Nature will not survive that. Our own cultures can't
survive it. We are already, you and I, competing against data objects for
survival, for resources, and for human attention, and we are losing that
competition. That's ridiculous. No living being, especially not a human child,
should ever have to compete against a data object, or the agenda of a false
collective, and lose. But that's what's happening, and no one's even paying
attention. We're not even doing the accounting. No one knows what it
costs to share an image a thousand times. No one knows how many human lives, what
many ecologies are destroyed, how many thousands or millions of animals are
destroyed. And believe me, they are, because all of the things we do
electronically have actual costs in the environment. And part of those come from
us paying attention, and part of them come from us paying energy and storage,
and protecting that data, backing it up, analyzing, etc. And part of it comes
from not doing something better, that actually does something amazing for us,
which we certainly can do with these assets. And I have a plan to demonstrate
how we can explosively and radically change all of this. But for the moment
before I can get that plan into action, I want us all to take a look at some of
these situations. And there's another very specific thing I want to talk about
related to Facebook. There's a gentleman who recently posted a video. You can
look this up yourself. I will try to find his name and link it to this one when
I'm done. That talks about how the algorithms that Facebook uses to decide
what we see in our newsfeed are really grossly misusing both our attention and
our trust. And what that means is Facebook is manipulating what's in the
newsfeed so that we don't see each other's shares. We don't see each other's
posts. We don't see the posts that we would like to see. What we're seeing are
the posts that Facebook wants us to see that will make them money. And also, they
try to get us into a situation where once we get some attention for the very
the great deal of work that we do, many of us, to create useful and informative
and even intelligent Facebook assets, instead of rewarding us for that, they
punish us. So what that means is while sustainable man, quote-unquote, gets like
10 million pieces of likes and sharing each day, I will get 30. And I'll post 20
to 30 creatively organized, intelligent pieces of information that empower
people's intelligence and ways of thinking and perspective. I'll get 20 likes.
Sustainable man who invests lots of money in Facebook will get 100,000 likes on a
single piece of media that is basically meaningless. It's just another meme. It's
been copied 50,000 times in 50,000 other places. Our intelligence won't survive
that. Our relational intelligence won't survive it. Our social network, the
intelligence of our social networks is being actually just sort of ground down
into garbage by all of this. We're being rewarded when we do the wrong things that
support causes we oppose. And we're being charged fees Facebook wants you to pay
and wants me to pay. So that just a few of my posts and posts of people who are
actually content creators and are doing something that could really make a
difference, they want to make sure that stuff doesn't get seen. They want to
charge me to have just my own my own social network see the posts that I'm
posting. That's absolutely wrong. In fact, functionally, that's evil. Seriously,
that's just plain evil. And it damages us because it rewards the wrong kinds of
behaviors. It rewards the wrong kinds of collectives. And it rewards absolutely
the wrong kinds of content for existing and being propagated. But there's
something even a little scarier going on. I subscribe to a lot of activist pages
because I myself am an intelligence activist. I'm very concerned about human
intelligence and how we can protect and enhance that in tightly knit little
networks that grow and consolidate and become explosively powerful. And I have
some amazing plans done to share with you about that, but not today. What I'm
going to talk about today, and what I want to finish with here because I'm
running out of time. And thank you for staying with me this long is this on
pages like Mother Jones, Truth Out and Alternate. What happens to these pages is
very interesting when you look at which portions of their output make it into our
news feeds. If you look at the actual pages of say, for example, Mother Jones,
you'll see a large array of various topics. And they post many news items,
excuse me, per day. Some of these are interesting. Some of them are useful. But
there are two problems with these pages. The first one is like almost any modern
journalistic endeavor, these pages make money and get benefits when they get
attention. And what this has resulted in is the wrong kind of journalism. This is
journalism that is basically spun to outrage, upset, frighten and make us feel
helpless, isolate us and get us to not respond intelligently or with any kind
of not respond with the ability to unify and take advantage of our unity and our
beliefs and our agreements in order to make change. What happens instead is we
get shocked journalism. So Truth Out, excuse me, Alternate is actually the worst
offender. We'll constantly just post some piece of news items and say like you're
going to be outraged by this. That's all they say. So they're just copying a
news item from somewhere else and then telling you what to do to be outraged.
That's useless. Actually, when we're frightened or outraged, our intelligence
plummets. There's a neurochemical process whereby we lose working memory, we lose
access to creativity, and we just become reactive. In that mode, we can easily be
made into slaves. And in fact, this is this is the kind of thing that is done
in prisons. So the first part of the problem is these quote unquote activist
organizations are not taking their role seriously or intelligently. What they've
done is they have become converted into shocked journalism outlets. That ruins
our intelligence. It ruins our chance of affecting the problems that they're
pretending that they oppose. And then they make lots of money because the more
frightened and outraged we are, the more we will share this kind of media, react
to it like it and so on. Again, this takes a precious investment that we might
