Or religious people demanding that you think their way.
Or philosophers their way.
Or gurus their way.
Or guys like me my way.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
We just need to be able to see better.
Then, and understand how structure and activity informs space,
which is the environment around it.
That's actually memory, by the way.
That's mother.
That's space.
Matter comes out of it.
And that space is memory.
So that living places used to actually be our memories,
which is why we have these memory games where people build a living travel route
in their mind and they light up little things all along it
that they want to remember in a sequence and then it works.
That our minds were built that way in nature.
Not built, but they were instanced from nature in that fashion.
Now, the cars surround our city blocks just like viruses
and we reproduce them madly and we have wars over the fuel
to make those cars and make more cars.
And we're lying to each other and killing each other
over these boxes made of what?
We're burning down the human future madly and each other
and our history, because we're lying about all of our history.
We're not fulfilling it.
All the things that we, all the wars we fought for liberty
and justice and intelligence and well-being,
we flushed all that down the toilet so we could just have terror and war
and prisons and things.
And horrifying, lying nightmares of monstrous people
ruling over us all over the world and just ripping
what's left of the environment to shreds
and blaming us for our poverty while they skyrocket
into egotistical stratosphere of like money, power and abuse.
Really just abuse of life on earth and all of human history.
All of the history of life on earth, all of the future of life on earth.
Just flushing it down the toilet.
They're kind of upset that anything that beautiful could even exist.
So they really don't want anyone to discover it or have any access to it.
It has to be shut down right now.
We need to just get the human hand completely off of nature
so that there's no chance of reconnecting with each other
in any way they don't control.
And it's not a conspiracy.
This is just human intelligence not being properly managed.
No one's doing any checking.
No one's playing the game.
They're just letting the powerful, domineering forces rise madly
because everybody's being sort of passive and fearful
and these guys kind of know what they're doing and these people don't.
So we're going to teach these people what these guys are doing
and that will actually get us back to here
so these people can tell these people how to lead
and protect us and do the things that they're supposed to do
like ensure that A, we have the social infrastructure
to produce humans instead of prototypes
that you can just steal the humanity that they bring to their birth from them
or make sure they never develop it
and then control them like slaves.
And one of the ways they do that is with little viruses called machines.
You've got one that you love to keep in your hand.
I watch people walking around with them outside all the time.
I don't carry one.
I never had a cell phone.
I'm a technician.
I'm an ace.
Ios and McIntosh troubleshooter.
I've been working with these computers since they were invented.
I was a beta tester for Adobe Illustrator amongst other things.
I know a lot about technology
and we're following a monster into hell, literally.
The hell that we're creating out of representations that we think are glorious.
Meanwhile, the living world and our actual relationships are being burned down
and we're not paying attention to that.
In fact, we're being isolated in our homes
and we're having good shift to us and things.
Seems like luxury, doesn't it?
You can get all the information now going out of your house.
How much of the experience can you get?
Are you living a fictional life through other models of things
rather than heroically discovering what you brought to your human birth
and what this whole story is all about?
Because if that's what's going on, I'm not talking about religion.
I'm talking about intelligence.
Are you getting some?
Are you really getting some?
Because most of what I see out there is
copied stuff that doesn't build or look intelligent.
It's not friendly to intelligence.
I see things like the streets and the cars.
Did you notice that not only do the cars own the streets
so that nothing can cross?
Never mind humans.
I mean, humans can maybe figure out how to cross and try.
They still get killed.
They get killed in the cars too.
They get killed for the cars all day long.
The cars really are just attacking everything that moves 24-7
