and, I don't know, memes and photographs of nature
that is destroyed by us photographing nature
instead of being nature
in the same way that if we just photograph our children
and we don't relate with them.
Well, I think you can see what happens to us
and our world and our children.
So we need to understand this whole interplay of space
and things that structure it
because there's sort of, in a basic way, there's two kinds of things.
There's things that structure space
in ways that oppose intelligence in life
and tear the web of life and intelligence apart.
Now those ways are still natural because they're in nature.
And they're not necessarily evil because they actually produce intelligence.
Weirdly enough.
But we want to stop them before they burn the whole planet down
as like a luxury snack for 10 people.
That is off the table.
That we need to just stop right now.
And one of the ways that's going to happen
is we're going to play together in little pods
of incredibly intelligent human beings in nature, with nature,
all the time from now on.
And so the people who are mimicking intelligence
are pretending to be heroes.
Not that this hand is bad. This is a really good hand, actually.
This is actually the hand you want to be a little bit confused about.
A little bit skeptical of the right hand.
My camera's reversed. This is technology.
It always kind of makes things backwards and funny.
Now I want you to think about a few different ways that
structure informs space.
I want you to think about when you walk down the sidewalk.
That's a structure, but it's also space.
It used to be a living space. Now it's a dead space.
So that you can walk down it faster and not be interrupted or troubled by anything.
It might be live.
You wouldn't want that.
Many things are kept behind fences.
You know, a rose bush is going to attack you. It's like a thorn in some things.
There's bees and hornets and stuff all around there.
I mean, spray that stuff down, man.
That's your own intelligence you're killing off, by the way.
That you're fencing in like that.
You're paving over. It's your mind.
Underneath that stuff is our minds. It hurts.
Anyway, you're walking down the sidewalk and you want to cross the street.
Well, those are two different speeds of gaps.
So the sidewalk has one speed. It's basically safe for you to walk on at that speed.
It might not be for animals, because you could be riding a bike and an animal could get hurt or you could get hurt.
But basically, the sidewalk is generally safe.
Now, next to the sidewalk is a much faster thing, but it's not owned by life.
It's owned by dead angels.
An angel is anything that crosses the gap, by the way.
We're not talking about religion. We're just talking about...
We're just using language in a playful way.
So we're going to imagine that the street is a real gap, because it is a gap.
We've got to cross the street to get to you, to get to anywhere I want to go.
And it's not made for people.
You can't lie down or sit in the street. You can't hang out there, right?
Living things are not...
It's game over for living things that want to stay in the street.
We all know that.
And it's not about a court case or anything.
You're in the street at the wrong time. You're killed.
There's no decision making.
It's not about a conversation.
It's not about beings being beings.
It's about, blam, you're dead.
There's nothing like that much in nature.
There's no place in nature that moves like that.
Ever.
I mean, in all 4.5 billion years... Yeah, right.
In all 4.5 billion years of history.
The only thing that moves like that would be like a flow of lava.
But even that's more intelligent than cars.
And even that leads to, you know, something like life.
So we got this weird gap thing, the street.
And there are these strange boxes on both sides.
And they surround our living enclaves, by the way.
These weird metal boxes.
If you've ever seen a cell attacked by viruses,
and you made the comparison, you realize those are viruses.
Because what viruses do is they're not sort of living.
They're structure.
They're sort of like really intelligent structure.
And they take over a living cell,
and then they make that cell replicate the structure of the virus madly.
And that's how we get sick.
But viruses aren't just bad.
Viruses are a little bit like honeybees.
And even bad things aren't just bad.
You can't, like, get rid of all the bad things.
You don't want to do that.
But if things have gone way out of control,
you want to at least recognize them, right, together.
So you can figure out what to do.
You don't have to have one person telling you.
Or scientists demanding that you think their way.
