and the humans don't want to admit it.
Essentially, everything the human beings are doing
in terms of machinery and producing stuff to sell
is ripping their own minds and the living planet to shreds
and they're kind of dancing around like they're activists anyway.
I'm sorry.
You can't own a car and be an activist.
You can't just go around like,
no, I'm not going to make extreme hyperbolees.
You know what I mean.
If the car is a deadly lethal virus
that we don't use to come together, by the way,
a little bit, mostly for personal stuff, we use our cars.
And it's a luxury that if we understood the cost of it in 2014,
like the actual environmental cost,
all the way around of a single trip to the store,
we would never touch it again.
It's probably something like a thousand birds and ten people
just to go half a mile in your car in 2014.
And I mean, it's way worse than that
because actually what will really happen is over time
as the effect amplifies of that tiny action in your car right now
in a very dangerous time in the universe's history.
As that little act amplifies,
just like you're taking a picture and showing it on the internet,
it amplifies into millions of shares, right?
It becomes significant really quickly.
Here's the weird thing.
Not only do the cars control the street,
they control where you can enter it because they're blocking it
and they have space you don't have the right to.
They can just sit there occupying space.
And if they're in trouble, you pay, not them.
Do you pay insurance for them?
So are you paying blood money on top of the damage that they do just to exist
and take us to war and fuel them and run these around?
At what point will we not be able to afford that?
Did we even look at it?
Have we been taken over?
You know, everybody's worried about like aliens and invasions
and conspiracies and things.
What if we are the conspiracy?
What if just right in front of us,
the basic things that we're not doing as human beings are the conspiracy,
the very simple things like spreading memes that say there's conspiracy
but not being intelligent or drawing people together and just frightening them more.
Does that sound intelligent?
Because fear breaks people apart, right?
It takes what could be this, which is really useful,
and it makes it this, which is actually these things just fight each other at that point.
We can't do that.
So what I want you to see is there's something very interesting about gaps and space.
Now, cars are an example of a deadly virus that's killing everything on Earth.
There's nothing good about that technology.
An intelligent species would build that once.
They might keep it for a year and after that they would see
in 20 years this will kill everything on Earth.
We have to stop now and find another way.
And they wouldn't be like making another way that polluted and killed things in needed roads either.
See, if you guys got free energy right now,
lots of people think like, if only Tesla was alive,
you would have been dead a long time ago if Tesla succeeded.
You're lucky he went nuts.
Because he was about to give incredibly broken monkeys the key to blow everything up.
And right now your scientists are basically busy doing the same thing all day, seven days a week.
They have no idea what life is.
They want to give everyone the power to just burn it down and celebrate that madly.
You guys are out of your mind.
You've got about zero years left to figure this game out
because it's been going on so long that there's now seven billion of us
and we're too dang mean to bear another year of, seven billion, right?
One time around the sun, seven billion human life years.
We better do something amazing because we're going to burn the world down if we don't.
It's that simple.
Let me show you something amazing.
It's called honey bees.
Now, honey bee is a lot like a car except it travels between stuff to save other beings by the billions.
So when they do that, they make honey.
When they go out and save other beings by the billions and become the reproductive transit across every gap in nature,
they become intelligence like mad.
Intelligence like our species has never even tasted.
That's stuff they may call honey.
That's the byproduct of their intelligence.
That's the exhaust.
We eat that.
We think that's good.
Let me just tell you a secret.
You're going to think I'm being religious here, but I'm talking about intelligence and nature.
If you get to know a honey beehive and I don't mean like a beekeeper.
I mean like someone who originally knew a honey beehive as a part of their body and mind.
You're going to have an experience yourself so shocking that you'll never want to watch another human movie again ever.
You won't care what it's about because you'll be living a life that's more exciting than the wildest stories of heroes you've ever seen.
And you'll have powers of rescue that make the fables you've heard look weak as if they were tanking.
You'll wonder why everyone was sitting down so long.
A bee is an angel.
It links beings together.
Beings, did you notice that?
And in networks like constellations that are hyper intelligent, living places, not just single beings, whole universes.
Now, there are bees between worlds because Earth is a flower.
In case that's not obvious.
