I'd like to talk today about some very confusing or common problems in how we think, how we're
trained to think, how our culture sort of inclines us to think and speak, and how these
traditions create inclination to various kinds of evaluative analyses that are disabling
and false.
So we have this idea that we can have something or not have something, and the idea is based
on separable objects that we can trade and money and this kind of thing.
And so often we will feel that we either have something that happened to us in the past,
we have this, or we may feel that we have lost something that we once had.
And what I want to focus on here is the difference between the idea that we have a mind and
an identity, or that we compose one.
So what we're kind of trained to think is that we have or don't have certain kinds of
things, certain kinds of abilities, certain histories, certain futures, certain opportunities.
And in fact, the identity status of stuff and the possession status of stuff is something
we mostly make up in language.
So it doesn't really exist.
And we often trouble ourselves with this.
I'll give you an example.
The other day I had a chore that I had to do.
See I knew what, what I had, it was a chore.
And it involved having to travel back and forth between this location laboriously to,
to transport some goods.
And I knew I was going to have to do this.
I didn't have any help, so I was going to have to do it alone.
And I was a little bit grumpy about it as I was walking down the street.
And it suddenly occurred to me that I had categorized what I was doing as a chore.
In other words, I had a chore to do.
And at that moment, I remembered something that I've been learning lately, which is that
our relationship with categories is voluntary.
We are the authors of categories.
And so I decided that instead of having a chore, what I would have was an adventure.
And I would have extra time outside, I would have extra exercise, I would meet new people,
I would see the birds, I had all these wonderful things that I was going to do along with the
chore.
And I just made those the category so that what I was having was an adventure rather than
a chore.
And on the way to having this adventure and having it, you know, a number of times in
a row, I would accomplish my chore as a side task.
And that was a lot more fun.
And I was very surprised at the ease with which I could choose to compose a situation
rather than to comply with the category that seems factual, right?
Fact seems to have this incredible authority, but it's far less authoritative than we ordinarily
pretend.
The reason fact seems to have authority is because everyone would agree, or we think,
you know, we suppose that most people would agree that I actually left my house to do
this thing.
Right?
The reason I'm leaving is to do this thing.
So that's what I'm doing.
Is it?
Really?
Since, honestly, I'm doing 50 different things.
So is the chore, you know, category, is that definition the correct one?
No, it isn't.
It's got a lot of authority because if we got a crowd of strangers together and had
them watch, you know, me doing my thing and then ask them, what is he doing?
They would identify the function.
And so that's what they would say I was doing.
That's what I am to, that's what's supposed to be reasonable for me to think I am doing.
So what do we really have?
And by the way, notice that move when we include a bunch of people who aren't actually included
and don't even exist.
They're just abstract people.
Well, most people would think, could you ever get most people together and actually ask
them what they think?
Are we going to do that?
Or are we just talking about what we'd like to talk and think?
Imaginary people, you don't really exist except in language, are or would be thinking.
So this is a topic in cognitive activism which has a lot to do with how we relate with the
representational faculties that make us the unusual animal that human beings are.
And particularly, how do we relate with language, knowledge, and culture?
What kinds of relationships do we form?
Can we correct them?
Do we develop new ones, this kind of thing.
And cognitive activism underlies all of the things we're interested in and all of the
problems that we face, even as individuals, as a species, as cultures, and as societies.
And it's funny how rare this discipline or art is.
So to return to the topic briefly, what I want you to understand is, let's say that
I had a million dollars in the past and then I lost it.
This is a common way of thinking.
And then it is, of course, reasonable.
You can go back and get the records and say, well, here's my bank records.
I had a million dollars, here's my record, and I don't have it now.
But there's a lot of different ways of thinking about history.
And one of the most interesting ones comes from quantum mechanics.
It's a perspective that history doesn't exist until it's recorded in the present, which
sort of means you're going to get the history that's the result of your analysis.
And that's going to be informed by why you are interested.
So we probably can't erase the fact that someone who once had a million dollars and doesn't
now is talking about an actual situation.
But there's a variety of interesting conceits that are useful to explore.
For example, one time in my life, it was totally by accident, I had a glass of wine, just one
glass.
Well, actually, I asked for a second, that was bold, but it was beyond anything I'd ever
imagined a wine could be or anything that would go in my mouth.
And I was so overwhelmed with the incredible, astonishing ecstasy of having this wine in
my mouth, that not only all other wines, but most other experiences just didn't even seem
interesting.
I was thinking about ways to get more of this wine right away.
This is the nectar of heaven.
It was a chateau of feet that someone who had invited me to their house had brought
