to the dinner table.
Now I could sit around pining for that wine and think, once I had this wine, I had it.
But like a conversation or a meal, did you actually possess it?
Like, was it the thing you had, or were you participating in it?
So you were participating in this thing, this transition, this time, this space of time,
and the money piled up and then the money went away.
So you can imagine it like a meal.
You did have a meal, but you don't mourn that it's over, right?
So they're going like, oh no, I wish I was still just having that meal all the time now.
We could run a race and have the experience of running it, actively.
But only in the future or the past can you have a race to run or have a run or race.
And neither of those places are here, so both of them are just things you're thinking.
Now I know that sounds really surprising, but in fact, that's just a way of thinking.
Whatever the past might be, we can only discover by absent analysis, we're not in the past
anymore, right?
We're not in the past from that, and we're doing much of analysis, description and stuff.
And that's not the past, that's our analysis and description.
We're doing that for a purpose.
We have a concern, a motive that's driving these our analyses into counting games and
things like this.
And often these motives, while quote, reasonable to our common thought and public talk and
media experience and all this, are completely irrational, have nothing to do with forming
an intelligent position, forming an inhabitable position, forming a position that we're excited
about, that is encouraging, that is inspiring, curious, playful, joyful, human, animalian,
you know, alive.
And if we go with the inclinations we're trained with by culture, what we're going to get is
a graveyard and it's going to stack up with ugly, terrifying losses and missed future
opportunities in comparison to other people who won the game and this kind of thing, which
of course isn't a life or even a mind.
It's more like a constellation of symptoms, of the absence of living into creatively our
opportunities as both human beings and representational animals.
So what I want to encourage you to do is to experiment with the idea that you compose
minds.
And one of the most surprising things about this, when we look at it carefully, is that
we compose minds, this is really surprising, in the hope of the observational attention
of others.
And we compose minds according to what we understand of the specific contexts we are
either involved in, actively, meaningfully, or absent from, and we feel deprived or we
feel put upon by them.
So we compose minds in the hope of mostly the positive observational attention of others.
If you don't believe me, what's Facebook about, what's Twitter about, what's social
media about, it's about trying to get positive observational attention of others.
Those contexts are a little bit phony because they are display contexts for not actually
forming human relationships and shared goals and mutual contexts.
We're having an actor-slash-spectator experience, an avatar and then fans.
Of course, many of us are reaching more and more into becoming the presenter rather than
just the spectating consumer.
Hi, I'm one of those people.
So, since we can sense that we compose minds in the hope of the positive observational
attention of others, and we compose minds in accordance with what we understand to be
our relationship with context, whether it's active or passive, whether it's creative or
sort of helpless, and then these minds like species of animals, we just become them.
So it seems like we have a mind, and the mind just kind of does things to us, and we kind
of go along with it or don't.
This is especially useful to notice if we're having a lot of negative thoughts and such.
These often involve imagining other people thinking things about us or not thinking things
about us, attending us for reasons we don't want or not attending us for reasons we would
like to be attended.
And here you can see immediately just how compelling this is.
The cry of the child, mommy, mommy, look at me, look at me.
Here we see the fundamental spirit of something human, which is that we want to be and be
seen within for each other together.
We want to be seen by those that we look up to and who we love and who we love to play
with and become ourselves with.
We want their positive attention and encouragement.
We might want their correction too.
And then of course context is fundamental.
So if we don't, and because most of our contexts are highly compromised by all kinds of predatory
and mimetic phenomena, we really need to realize that we have to invent a context in which
we can be meaningfully human together.
We have to invent our context in ourselves in which we can meaningfully compose minds
that are amazing and vital, enjoyable.
We can help each other in this process all the time just by recognizing whether we talk
about it formally like I'm doing now or simply practice the active composition of something
other than a courtroom-like, accounting-like, police-like tyranny.
Yes, I had a chore to do, but it depends on who you ask and what their concerns are and
how they orient those concerns into a question that becomes a set of assertions.
So before we begin to compose minds, we have concerns, and these concerns become motives.
This is usually completely unconscious, this is something we almost never see.
And then we'll start thinking, for example, that was really kind of my neighbor to bring
me those cookies the other day.
Or here I am paying taxes again when I'm not getting the benefits of having to pay that
money, and who are these people I'm paying to?
Why do they have such incredible power over my life?
Two different concerns, two different minds, we become this mind, these minds, and not
noticing all of this usually.
So I'd like to invite you together and suggest that we begin the process of learning how
to compose minds rather than to comply with public projections of minds we think we're
supposed to have.
And especially when we think about things that may have happened in the past, things
that might happen in the future, let us compose a history that empowers and encourages us.
Since we're going to be composing one from memories and ideas and confusion sometimes.
If we're going to be making a composition, let's compose something that's empowering
in the moment.
And if we're going to be predicting futures, even if we sense threats, let us compose minds
and collectives capable of creatively adventuring into those otherwise dire and non-negotiable
right, seeming fears, it's April 1st, I think it's the duck moon still, Sawakitsum in Nitsupawasan,
Blackfoot language.
This is a time of year when of course Easter comes and the birds, many of the birds, particularly
the waterfowl, are building nests and laying eggs.
