Let me explain further.
In your gut, you have an older brain.
This brain contains its own kinds of neurons.
It also contains hyper structures of anciently evolved semiotic bacteria that can form relational
sensing networks on the fly.
Some of them may contain the capacity to sense magnetic fields, disturbances to those fields,
and information within those fields.
There is between your gut and your brain a trunk of nerves, but 80% of the traffic on
that trunk goes from gut to brain, not from brain to gut.
Your second wrist connects you to a set of senses that are unlike anything ever hinted
at in human literature, fiction, or imagination.
Across your second wrist lie forms of connectivity and sensing that similarly exceed the senses
that we are familiar with in the same way they exceed the senses of our own hand.
I hope that after listening to this, you may understand that it is important to count the
unity, to count the unifying body, to realize that we count the same way, the count of a
human is seven, and that you have a second wrist that you may be able to discover, activate,
and explore across.
In case you think that this is only something that's instanced in the human, I could sketch
for you many other features of this same kind of relationship in almost every natural form.
For example, one of the most astonishing and useful forms to look at is a tree.
A leaf is a bit like a flattened version of a tree.
It has kind of a central trunk, it often has veins.
These are usually filled in with material because it's used as a receptor for sunlight.
But then of course it has a wrist, which we call the stem, and that wrist leads to a working
member, which we call a branch, and that branch leads to a unifying body.
Fascinatingly, half of the tree reaches upward and branches upward into the atmosphere, into
towards space to receive sunlight and carbon dioxide and other chemistries, whereas the
other half of the tree branches downward, and instead of having leaves, it has hairs
and infinitely complex little bacteriological networks that surround the root system.
This is somewhat like our relationship with waking and sleeping.
During our waking parts of our lives, we are in the atmosphere, we see the sky, the stars,
excuse me, the sun, and we receive light and we see what is actually apparent all around
us in the world.
During our sleeping experience, we inhabit darkness and we dream, and we are down in
sort of the dark roots of mind and experience.
And so in this way, there's an analogy between the upper part of the tree and the lower part
of the tree and our waking experience and our sleeping experience.
There's a lot more that I could share with you about this, but I'm going to leave a lot
of that to your own discovery.
This has not come from a book, you will not find this written anywhere.
This comes from direct experience of learning with a non-human intelligence who wanted to
show me something that was actually much more profound than this, that I was able to encode
by translating it into an examination of the most important appendages and forms and
relationships that the understandings that I was shown revealed to me.
I hope that you may enjoy it, and I would like to encourage you to teach others to count
the hand differently, particularly children, because if we learn to count the unifying
body and to count one for the whole and to understand that there's a connection between
those and an upscale representation, it will change the basic nature of our intelligence.
Additionally, I just want to point out that like the leaf, the hand is sort of a flattened
and utilitarian version of the same paradigm of which our body is an instance.
Similarly, across the wrist, there is an even more expanded similar paradigm that makes
our body seem very flat.
I hope that you will enjoy this idea and expand upon it and share it and explore it with those
that you love.
Bye.
