Hi, my name is Darren.
I'm the author of organelle.org where I write about topics that are translations of things
I learned during a nine month contact event with a non-human intelligence.
I'm not exactly sure what the nature of that intelligence was, sometimes I think of it
as an angel.
During our contact, it taught me many astonishing things that fundamentally altered the nature
of my own intelligence.
I'd like to share one of those things with you briefly.
It's a very, very powerful idea that I think has the capacity to radically alter human
intelligence and could change our world.
It has to do with how we count and with one of the most important appendages of our bodies,
the hand.
Now, one of the things that's interesting about the hand is that this is the part of
our own bodies that we see almost every time we act.
If we type or play an instrument, if we eat or pick something up, if we open or close
something, lock or unlock it, if we drive a car or motorcycle or bicycle, our hands are
constantly in front of us.
It's interesting to me that there's just mainly a single body part, although we sometimes
see other parts of ourselves, our feet or our forearms, that is constantly being presented
to our eyes and I think we've been overlooking something very important about this appendage
for a long time.
Let me see if I can share with you another way of understanding our hands.
This has to do with how we count and one of the reasons that this is important is that
we have this phrase in English that doesn't count.
It actually means that it's meaningless or we don't count it.
In fact, how we count our hands has a huge impact on the way that we count and understand
individuality, unity, distinction and sets.
The way that we're taught to count, many of us are taught to count on our hands and we
are taught to count this as five.
That's the count for each of the individual appendages of the hand.
I'm going to call that the human count.
If you look carefully at my hand, you'll notice that there are sort of obvious lines of division
on the inside of my hand.
In this sense, the inside of the hand may be thought of as the side of separation.
If I turn the hand around, you'll see that although there are many sort of rough lines
all over the back of my hand, there are no obvious lines of distinction.
This side of the hand may be thought of as the side of unity.
Notice that you need both sides, distinction and unity, to have a hand at all.
These sides are not in conflict.
They both come together.
There's no other way to have them.
Now an animal might be understood to be a little bit more intelligent than a human
in counting the hand.
It would look first at the inside of the hand and would recognize a problem with the human
counting method.
The problem is, we do not count the most important thing.
The animal would like us to count the most important thing first for a number of reasons.
First, if we don't count the most important thing first, we may forget that it is important
or we may forget to count it at all, as has happened with most human cultures.
Secondly, counting the things in order of importance keeps their importance present
in our consciousness and awareness.
The most important thing about your hand is not your fingers.
It is the place where the members come together, the unifying body.
We do not count this.
We do not count the place the members come together or the palm.
The animal would count the palm first, so we count one for the palm, one for the thinking
member or thumb, and one for each of the working members or fingers.
The animal's count would be six.
Now an angel knows something that the animal does not, but it also remembers that it must
count the most important thing first.
For the angel, the most important thing is to count one for the unity of the hand first.
First your hand is one.
Then, the angel would turn it over to the side of distinctions and count one for the
unifying body, one for the thinking member or thumb, and one for each of the working
members.
By the way, I refer to this as the thinking member because it's really the appendage of
the hand that gives the hand, the human hand.
It's many of its most unique and powerful capacities.
The angel knows an even more important secret.
After counting one for the whole, one for the unifying body, one for the thinking member,
and one for each of the working members, that is seven.
By the way, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven holes in our head, not five, not six,
seven.
The angel would then add a plus to the count for the wrist.
The angel's count would be seven plus.
The wrist is really amazing because it leads across a gap to an astonishing set of extensions
to the hand.
Let me explain.
You, like your hand, have one unifying body.
Like your hand, you have one thinking member, and like your hand, it has two major sections,
neck and head.
Like your hand, you have one, two, three, four working members.
Like your hand, they each have one, two, three major sections.
In case the significance of this is lost on you, you are the hand of something.
Like your hand, you have a wrist that leads upscale to a more astonishing implementation
of the same paradigm.
We'll get to that in a moment.
If you were to see a hand sticking out of the ground and not know what it was, you would
never imagine that across the wrist lie senses so astonishing as eyes, the ability to smell,
the possibility of taste, kissing, and speech, and the possibility of hearing.
Across this plus that comes after the angel's count of seven, lie impossible extensions
of sensing.
Now, the hand itself has astonishing capacities of feeling and manipulation, but across the
wrist lie a whole other set of domains of senses, and you are like your hand in this
way.
You have a second wrist, and it is not physical because if it were, it would have more mass
than the entire universe.
Your second wrist is like the wrist of your hand in that, as you'll notice by looking
at mine, the wrist does not connect to the thinking member.
It connects to the unifying body.
