Make the inquiry in person with absolute sincerity outside of all human culture,
outside of science, outside of religion, outside of bosom, daoism, whatever the rakey bullshit you think you're doing is.
And contact nature. Nature is the source of human life.
It's the source of our intelligence moment to moment.
When you burn that down, our species becomes dumber than plastic shoe leather.
Please, don't misunderstand the fierceness of my language.
We're killing the sources of life on earth.
The future of our people will not survive the stupidity we've been practiced.
Leave your cults. Discover what their sources were.
You're going to be ashamed of what you were doing.
You're going to realize you were completely out of your mind on nonsensical bullshit.
It was toxic and while you were dancing around, they wiped out the remainder of life on earth.
The oceans, the whales, the dolphins that you guys love and post millions of images of.
All those beautiful places that you think in your electronic images you're somehow celebrating, you're assassinating.
That behavior wipes out nature.
When you post all that crap online, when you take pictures of things and tell people that the oldest Methuselah tree is in the white mountains,
you're wiping it out, okay? You're killing exactly the things that you think you're celebrating.
Wake the fuck up. You're wrong.
Get a taste of nature. Leave human culture.
Discover where all of this crap came from because all you've got here is a bunch of for sale plastic bullshit and it's not worth crap.
Stop pretending that love is going to solve anything.
You need to get out there and do something.
Stop driving your fucking car, okay?
Stop using so much resources that a single Westerner is using enough power resources and natural ecology for a thousand people to live for ten years every month.
Wake up. You're wrong. You're on the wrong side of the battle completely.
Nature won't survive your stupidity for another five minutes.
So please, don't be too worried about my harsh language.
My harsh language is because we're raping what is left of the most precious living sources of our own intelligence, health, and well-being on Earth.
If you think that's not worth being upset about, you're confused.
Thank you. Bye-bye for now.
Do something. Get out there and do something, people.
Something intelligent that has nothing to do with your abstract, stupid religion.
Do it now.
If you do, you'll discover what the hell those religions came from and it's nothing like what you're pretending.
Wake up from the dream. Discover the sources of these things.
Get outside of human culture and get a taste of the fact that you are an animal and that nature is more intelligent than anything humans have ever done.
If you touch the mind of nature, you're going to touch a mind so intelligent, you'll forget about every cult in human history like that.
That's my suggestion. Please, get a taste.
I'm with you in that. Bye-bye for now.
Next time, I'll be a little more calm.
