Hi, thanks for joining me. My name is Darren Stevenson. You're probably watching my YouTube
channel. Actually what you're watching is a digital representation of something that
happened in the past, but if you think about it carefully you'll realize that in some very
dependable way what's happening right now is really complex because I'm speaking in
a frame of time that you can't enter formally. And you're receiving it in a frame of time
that I can't enter formally. And what we're doing is I'm transmitting, it seems, as though
I am transmitting something forward in time to you where you will receive it. But my experience
is not like that. My experience is that I'm receiving waves of information from behind
me that are kind of pushing me forward. And I'm receiving another kind of information
from in front of me which drives and inspires my every word. Without you in the future, at least,
and you may think that you're only theoretical for me, but for me personally you're not theoretical.
I don't have the same, I don't see the world as a hypothesis. Okay, I don't. It's not my experience
that the world is something that might also be said. It might also be said that, it's not a
legal case. What my experience of being human and alive is so shockingly intense that none of the
fictions are even very interesting to me except as kind of, well, perspectival toys. Like, toys
that change our perspective. I want to change your perspective or at least give us some some
perspectives to play with on some ideas that are pretty common for us as human beings, their
ideas about what makes a group and what makes a human being and what makes something that isn't a
human being. And we sort of know secretly that all around us, there are people who aren't human
beings. And the really weird thing is you can't really point at someone and say, well, that person
is not a human being or that one. Yet we like to do that. We call this law. It's wrong. We're just
dead wrong because actually what you have are flows of moments of beingness emerging as persons in
flows. So if you if you take one of those and freeze them into a form and then accuse them,
they're just going to probably either have to just keep playing out that role and you're going to
have to enforce that role on them too because ordinarily, they'll just they'll just change and
grow and may change in the same direction you don't like, but they're not going to stay the same.
Trying to make them stay the same by telling them what they are, either you're sick or you're
beautiful or you're good or you're ugly or you're brilliant or you're dumb or you're, you know,
a genius or you're a loser or you're a winner or you're no one or you're really somebody or
you're special or you're not, you know, all these ideas, they're really ridiculous because you're
not any of those things. In fact, you're unspecified. That's the truth of the matter. You nobody has
the slightest idea what you are. None. Not one, not the slightest. I'm telling you, honestly,
they don't know. And that's why underneath you, there are all these authorities fighting desperately
to tell you what to be. And the really weird thing is that something inside us wants to be
told what to be, which is even seems a little crazier because we've been trained to believe
that we're supposed to be individuals and have like free will or individuality, originality.
Well, the ironic thing about free will, individuality and originality
is that they only really exist in this strange kind of bowl. And it's not just a simulation bowl.
It's not just a simulated bowl. It's not, it's not merely a symbol either. Those are two different
things, but what it is, is something like an intimately bound group of beings who are changing
their personalities and roles and identities somewhat fluidly together in a process that is
forward. It is forward or is oriented forward in time, relation, ecology, environment, context,
but probably in an order like this, cosmos, environment, animal, context of the moment,
these beings here, what we can become together or, you know, what are, what are, how should we
put it? What are our most easily accessible opportunities are? And what are most excellent
opportunities are? Because we're always faced with this, what's most easily accessible right here,
right now? And what does excellence ask of us? What will it, what will it invoke or evoke in us
as beings, as possibilities, as if waves of potential as a being are collapsing slowly but
fluidly into a changing form of identity? Who? Role, which is a lot about why, right? Method,
which is how? Environment and context, circumstances, circumstances, yeah, how we
stand in the circle of beings of all beings, circumstances, not just not just how we stand
in hypotheses or laws, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, not how we stand in relation to machines
or representations or things like this. See, this is a formal measuring stick. It's actually a
representation of something so shocking that if you had any idea what this represented, you'd
understand why it's called a ruler, because if you know what this represents, you know,
all those guys who say they rule, well, there's about three or four men on earth who have any idea
what this is. And there's hundreds of children, but by the time they'll, they can speak, they won't
be able to say anymore. And there's a few people who spin things that know what this is, but the
representation you're never ever, no living being should ever be compared to one of these in any
possible way, except in the most sort of playfully gentle convenience ways of learning and making
toys together to help each other become more insightful, more intelligent, and more like a
unified team of beings, because what's happening to us is we're being broken away from groups,
and then measured against this. And this is held above us, right? How much do you earn?
How important is your job? You know, how beautiful are you? How thin? How, how abundantly large are
you? How short? How tall? Where do you stand on the intelligence scale? How relationally intelligent
are you with other beings? How financially intelligent are you? How educationally or
intellectually intelligent? How creatively intelligent, right? How physically intelligent?
How communicationally intelligent? How do you consume? What's your consumer intelligence?
What's your spectator intelligence? Who are you a fan of? Why? All these little measurements all over
the place, right? Pretty soon, you got all these metrics, yeah, metrics. In fact, we get replaced
by metrics. That's what's happening on the internet. Google is making billions of dollars building
intelligences from these little metrics. They actually just measure your face, right? And they
tell like, they turn like this, right? And which eye is up and which one's open and which one's
closed? Are you smiling at this side or that side? I can do the same thing. That's why I'm intelligent.
When I see someone walking on the street, I see a signal, not just one, a thousand, okay? I just
saw a woman with a dog. I saw her for about three seconds. I don't remember everything about her.
She had lavender shirt, black pants, red shoes. The dog was brown and white. It weighed about
14 pounds. It was a puppy. She had blonde hair. It had a black ring bun. She was wearing something
under her lavender top. And there was something on her right wrist that was unusual. I only got a
glimpse of her. But if I just had the rest of the day to go over that, I would learn the most
astonishing things because I know how to apply metrics that aren't formal. They're informal,
swarming little, little pods of metric elements in my mind. And they just play with data. They
just swarm over it like clouds. I don't have to do it formally. Some people call this intuition.
I would call it psychism. Some people call it expertise. I want to tell you a little secret.
The most work I ever did in an hour of my life, ever, okay, I did for an employer
when I wasn't at work and was not being paid. That was the most work I ever did in an hour of my
life. Now, the second most work I ever did in an hour of my life was for an employer who paid me
five dollars.
The least work I ever did in one hour of my life
was for someone who desperately needed an actual human being to assist them.
In that hour, I did no work at all. I learned more probably than in any other
similar working hour of my life. And I was paid $1,000 not because I charged anything,
I charged nothing. Nothing, that's how much I charged because that's how much work I did.
I may have saved that person's actual life and possibly her whole family. I may have saved
them millions of dollars. That's how much work was required. So over here, I have two instances,
one where I got paid nothing for the most work I ever did in my life. The other one,
I got paid $5 for the most work I ever did in my life. Over here, I have something completely
different. I have service where I get to have a role and become a being that is liquid. I don't
have a set identity. And in that role, I have abilities that go far beyond anything I've ever
allowed to be over here. Now, the most money I've ever been paid for an hour of actual work
