What will put you in hell is people who tell you those stories. They're false rulers, both sides,
right? Science and hypothesis and law and then, you know, spirit stories and new age fictions and
gurus who aren't really making any, they're not lifting anybody up above them. If you see a real,
a real, how should we put it? Not a guru or teacher. How should we put it? What is this? If you see a
real child who understands their role possibilities, they will lift experts far above them and the
experts will resist and try and jump, you know, back down and crush the child. The child would slip
them above them. So, when you see someone come along who just takes another person and skyrockets
them even above themselves in the ability to see and think and relate with other beings and ecologies
and animals and things, when you see a person like that, that's what a leader is supposed to look
like. It's someone who lifts other beings up above them right away. So, if you saw like a teacher
who showed up on the scene and taught like four or five people who rapidly exceeded that woman
and then she disappeared or became their student and they kept playing this role back and forth,
now you've got intelligence moving forward in time. No frozen teacher thing, no frozen student
thing, no, no, no, no, no. We go together learning together. All the students in a school have roles
that lead the teacher. That's how it's supposed to be in our culture. That's the idea of democracy.
Promote excellence. Not mediocrity that comes from false, instant, processed, phony rewards.
Rolls together within for each other from now on in everything in this moment. This is your
invitation. I'm with you a thousand percent. I will totally make this with you. We're making
that right now if you're just even watching or jobs. We can have a little of both, but if we
have mostly this, we're not allowed to be human. We're going to shatter over here. Our groups
will shatter, our minds will shatter because they're made of this role reflection here,
this playing of different roles. We need that the same way we need food or light, the sunlight
actually, real light in the right time frame by the way, the same way we need to be free of the
constant need to serve machines and masters. We need to have the service that is zero
work, zero rushing can be human and discover what that means because let me tell you,
and I promise you this is true, the simplest pleasures of this aspect of strange complimentary
poll, simplest pleasures over here are more beautiful than the wildest religions stories of
heaven, the simplest ones, the sophisticated ones are so beautiful you won't be able to survive
the ecstasy, you won't. So we're getting something really, really wrong and deadly over here and
it's crushing everything down, whereas right in our hands together, actually in the shape of our
hands and its relationship to our bodies and relationships is an answer so simple and clear
and so true and human that really all of life on earth would agree, I mean everyone would agree
and let's face it, if life on earth has any intelligence it wants us to have roles because
jobs are killing everything, everything, they're destroying everything, we can't be jobs, we can't
have false collectives. In 2014 with seven billion people traveling around the sun one time being
seven billion life years of human activity and either growth, decimation, impact, wonder, shock,
war, development, we need to make the right choices in the most intelligent way possible,
there is no rigid structure that can provide that way because we are unspecified.
Reality is unspecified, nature is a field of possibility and the best way to navigate that
field is intelligently together within for each other and that field, not for false ideas,
fake rulers, metrics, forms of intelligence that become engaged in machine dominance,
whereas we can build better forms of that intelligence together faster, they're getting
eight percent of our intelligence and crushing us down and giving us nothing back, together we can
easily and immediately get 50 percent of our intelligence, they can still have their eight
and we can use that too and then we can just develop on that basis, there's this is a zero
sum game, we're going to die over here right now, over here we're going to open the gate to heaven,
literally the heaven of human relationship, ecological recognition, animalian intelligence,
relational intelligence, perspectival intelligence, but most of all thing that we're missing that all
of nature has and we don't even see, purposive intelligence, this is actually the basis of
intelligence itself, if you lose that the foundation is shatters and you just get really dangerous
little shards running around pretending that they're gods and fighting each other, we need to bring
that all back under how should we say a rubric of self-correcting, non-dogmatic, non-rigid,
how should I put it, intimacy, sensing relation, so that we're self-correcting and we're
intelligently playing different roles together and we're learning all kinds of different new
roles constantly together, that's so exciting that I don't want to do anything else, I just
want to do that all day long, I mean I don't care about films, I don't care about money, I don't care
I just want to be with humans and environments learning and living, if you take a few moments
and think about the things that we've explored here together, I have a feeling you'll understand
that both sides of our face really all the way filled in, the music for our actual voices and
hearts together within for each other, that's the future and this thing over here, it's going to
become a minor player in where we're going or we're going to be the minor player, more minor
each time we iterate that paradigm, thanks for joining me, we'll be exploring together again
very soon, bye bye for now
