in the light and the normalization? It doesn't really work. Notice how this side is still kind of
human, which would be this side, by the way, because that's how our mind works. And this side
is just blown out. You can't see it, which is the left side, which is actually the side that
believes in both sides. The side that is still being shown is actually the side that only believes
there's one half of the body. You have a stroke, this side of the brain starts lying and saying
this side of the body doesn't exist. That's a stranger, someone left it here. That's not me.
I'm going to take care of that. Somebody else's business.
It's half a being. It's the measurement half. It's got an argument, an hypothesis that wants
to compare you to. It's a court case embodied as human culture on earth.
Courts are wrong. Intelligent cultures, that's the first priority. If courts are your first priority,
well, that's what you become. That's what your mind becomes. You get half a person, half the light.
From now on, every drink of water you take, it's half of something else.
Every word you read, half of something else. Every word you make, half of something else that you
don't even want to make. See, because it's been normalized and changed away from something like
this, which is really natural and leads to another structure like itself. One, one unifying body,
one thinking member, four working members, two sections, three sections, my body. This is also
like a pot of beings because this is their purpose and their agreement and what they want to be
together. It organizes them and changes their roles fluidly and intelligently going forward
together in time to create the future together rather than to react to something that appears to
the response is just not paying attention behind us. No. No, no, no, no, no. That's a job.
That's slavery. That's a kind of prison. Excellents to get out of the prison cell, to
lance that cell and get out together, to be called into excellence together is a role playing
way, a way of playing roles together that change and flow but are more intelligent than
any role you can rigidly specify and they pay in 12 ways at once and they also pay in cash
and here's how much work is required. So just think about it. You want to play over here,
at least realize this, the more work you have to do, the less you're going to be paid. Do a lot
less work in a really useful way, make way more money for the amount of time you have to spend
working. Then at least you'll have a chance to come back over here and try to establish some kind
of humanity in the balance of that and some kind of ecology, some kind of animalian experience of
your animal self, right, which is the most important part of you as a being is fundamentally animal.
There's no way around it. You can argue with me but you're not going to argue with
3.2 billion years of human history. For six-sevenths of that there weren't even brains on this world.
So this is how old life is on earth. This is how long there weren't brains. You guys are,
we're brand new around here. So if we're the only intelligent, something really weird is going on.
We're saying like, roll for six-sevenths of the history of life on earth. There was no
intelligence and suddenly man emerged and suddenly now there's intelligence and everybody's smart.
Except weirdly, then we start burning down all the little pieces that lift us up.
And we start burning down too and don't even notice, but we're so intelligent,
machines and no, you have a job. It owned you and started shaving away half of everything
so that it could burn down the rest of the living beings. And then, I don't know what the, then what?
Then stand there dumbfounded as its intelligence just leaked, the remaining intelligence sort
of leaks out of one of its ears and we fall over like a dead statue. We won't even be able to make
museums. We won't even be able to look at our photographs and understand what the hell they were.
There's seven billion of us now. So one time around the sun means seven billion humans
doing one year of life. Think about that. That's really new. We better do something really beautiful
and excellent together, which is not like jobs because those won't allow us to be ecological.
They will not allow us to be human beings. We have to be fake, fake pod members with stipulated
roles for non-human groups, deadly idea. And these compete with each other against these
and life on earth. No more of that. None. Zero. Not even one of those should be allowed to happen.
That's all we're doing. And we wonder why over here things are getting a little bit sketchy.
We're scared. The environment is being torn apart. Life on earth, perishing beneath the
necessities of fictional collectives that don't even exist except as possibilities on the rule.
We could set up a metric like this and make money this way and treat these people that way and treat
those people that way and keep it a secret this way and we can figure it all out. We're supposed
to have roles that actually embody the power and intelligence of the history of all of life
on earth and the promise of all of life in space and time. This isn't a matter of religion. This
is a matter of just look at organisms. You don't have to be a scientist or a guru or religion person
or a logist or a logician or an artist or anyone to understand this. Every single being you look
in the eye of another being. You understand all these things immediately. I'm not even telling
you things you don't know. I'm only saying things that I think are very difficult for us to speak
clearly together that are absolutely crucial for us to realize right now together within
for each other, not for any other purpose, for our world, for our ecologies, for the animalian
basis of life on earth, you know, the forests, the living places, the water, the sky. It's really
simple. It doesn't, again, it doesn't require any kind of philosophy. If you don't have water and
sky, you die. There's no other way you can make up any story you want, have court cases till the end
of time. Be my guest, bring every kind of ruler you can imagine. I'll be happy to, you know,
I'll be happy to stand in on the side of life and human beings and having building roles together
that are playful and extremely intelligent. When we do this, because we don't have to be afraid
when we do this, and we always have to be afraid when we do this, we do this, our intelligence
sky rockets, we get like, I don't even know what the magnification value is, but let's say three
factors of what we what would be available to any of us. And the more the more true and beautiful
our purposes and the more powerful our agreement and commitment, because our purpose is actually true
and not just a style thing or money making scheme. What happens is the whole history of life on earth
gets behind us with that. So when we have a purpose that beautiful, we can become something unlike
has ever been seen on earth by playing together in a way that we're just it just all it does is
take the fictional mess that makes us seem distinct away and let us form these really
intelligent service oriented rescue and learning oriented problem solving oriented teams.
That's all we're meant for this. We're born for it. We were evolved for nature raised us up for
this. And we've been doing the opposite. We've been burning all that down and chopping this off
with really ridiculous ideas, and then getting the all of these people fighting and then putting
these people on top of them with a bunch of rulers and then funneling cash and power up to
these people. So just go rocketing up the ecosystems, the future of life on earth, our
intelligence, our ability to form relationships, ecologically and a million that are mutually
beneficial for our own minds, cultures and futures destroyed. And then we're blamed for the outcomes
of that and charged to go back to work to try to repair it and buy things like health insurance
to try to help us be human in the two minutes we have to do so over here where we're not serving
machines and masters who care nothing about our survival except as data points. The NSA will
preserve your data as an organ of your government in the United States. The NSA will preserve your
data but not your child, not your health. You see how dangerous that is? Because pretty soon
they're going to start burning you down just to get the data. Well what kind of data can we get
when we burn them down? They're already doing that. Now they aren't a big conspiracy. They are just
unbridled belief in the power of false authorities instead of the the actual authority of mutuality
in human relation, in ecological relation, with our minds, bodies, worlds, future and history.
Our history means something. It calls us to excellence in the same way the process of our
future does. So the only way we can do that is like this, like a hand. This is intelligent.
This is not. You can't do things with just this. That's why all of the ruling sort of the false
ruling people and the false intelligent, excuse me, the false religion people, right? A real religion
lifts everybody. Now, end of story. It's not a ruler of judgment ever. Period. Done. No more. No more
judgment. A real religion, something that's actually, religion actually means it's about this
purpose that links us back together. It's not about stories about evil sky gods and put you in hell.
