for an actual employer was $750 for an hour of actual work. I want to tell you a secret about
this mountain of money over here. It's a really weird and unexpected secret. Other people have
talked about it. There's a gentleman who wrote a book, forgive me, since I've only just been
introduced to him for not remembering his name. It might be Richard Koch, but I really can't
remember, so I may have to correct myself on that. His book was, I think, called the 80-20
principle. And the idea is that 80% of what we do is extraneous and really just making a mass of
things. And it's actually a big problem. But if we really want to do anything excellent to get
outside the cell of our easily accessible sort of instantaneous false fulfillments, false roles,
false identities, false payoffs, false rewards, false tasks, false methods, false skills,
I want to tell you a secret about this side over here, the money side of the work. And
then we'll talk about this side over here, the money side of being ourselves together,
with and for each other in the world, every moment from now on. Two different things. Work, a job,
and life, changing roles in relational symphonies with the entire history of life on earth,
all the beings around you right now, and generating the future ahead of us rather than just receiving
the results of our kind of rampant stupidity, egoic stupidity as a species and as individuals and
as collectives in the moment. Again, no religion, no science, no politics. I've got nothing to sell
here. We're just going to talk about playing with these two ideas. Now over here on this side,
there's a really strange idea I want to ask. I want to ask all of you this question.
Just take a moment and consider it for yourselves. Ask yourself these two questions. What was the
most work you ever did in an hour of your life for an employer? How much were you paid for that?
What was the least work you ever had to do in an hour of your life for an employer that you got
paid for? Because the thing I want to make really clear about my own experience is that
as I was being paid more and more to be a technical consultant, by the way, and on the spot
troubleshooter in situations where 10 minutes can cost $100,000. If we're down for 10 minutes,
we're going to lose 100 grand. So they're willing to pay me a lot of money if I can guarantee like
they won't go down. No matter what happens, they won't even lose one minute. And I don't know what's
coming. And I'm an uneducated person. I left school in the sixth grade and ran away from home
and lived in the forest like a monkey. Okay. And then I came back
to what you guys call civilization. And what I saw tried to destroy my mind. But since I happened
to survive, I've got a little bit of monkey smarts left from when I lived in the woods. And
that monkey smarts is worth lots of money because it can see through problems that ordinary people
have because they think they know stuff. I don't think I know. I have a liquid identity so I can
flow into a situation like a chameleon. I can adopt I can adopt identities that are useful in that
situation that don't belong to me. I have no right to adopt them. But I'm not a mimic. Why am I not
a mimic? Just simple reason my purpose is true. I'm a faker with a true purpose. Wait a minute.
How do you get that? Actually, that's what a child is. That's what a prodigy is. An artist.
In fact, aren't dreams a little bit like that? Isn't that part of what makes us human? Do you
think your car dreams? Does your computer dream? Does it have eyes of living water made by billions
of beings? Their lives given to preserve and protect them? No, it doesn't. It has shining lights. I
see motors. Not too much like life. Not too much like life. The job is weird as I got more and more
as my demand as the demand for my presence and services increased and my value skyrocketed.
Two weird things happened. The first was I wasn't allowed to keep any of that money
at all. I'll go into that. The second was I did less and less work and had more and more fun,
but I was more and more busy and had less and less time to be alive. So I tried to be alive
in little moments between the work or in little moments when I was at work not working because
I was working for myself so I didn't have to be doing anything. I just had to make sure that
certain things were done and then being in a certain place at a certain time to encase something
happened. So I did a lot of that and while I was there I could learn about systems and I built
systems. I did my job, but at the same time my job was my education and I felt literally like
I was a person from another planet because I had done some growing up in the wilderness alone.
For a while in the Russian river area and I mean I was still in culture. I wasn't completely out in
the woods, but I lived in the woods. I cared nothing about this mess at all. I wanted to find out
what nature was. How would you find out from here?
Anyway, that's a separate story. My point is this jobs which make us false people
and it's like one of these, not like one of these. It just cuts us off and it measures us and then
gives us little tokens about that which we can give those tokens away to get other representations
of things that aren't roles or lives like films and stories and things.
Or roles which are like the heroic
roles that we see actors take on in films that rock stars seem to portray. Excuse me,
just had breakfast. I'm digesting food that we get so excited about and you know,
sports stars and authors and all the people we adore, philosophers and gurus and spiritual leaders
and the cultural leaders, the technologists, the scientists, all of these people above us,
but we just kind of push down below them like looking up with adoration when
where's our role? Where did it go? A child doesn't want to be just a spectator. They want
to play the roles together, right, to enact them, to emerge into the world in themselves
in this beautiful, changing, unspecified intelligence of mutuality that comes from this
thing we actually don't count. We count this as five. There's a lot of brightness because of the
light. I'm just going to let it be because you know, it's a natural light and the camera doesn't
deal with it very well. You see the machine is shaving off what you're seeing. That's the problem
right there. It's normalizing it. See, once you've got that normalization, you're over here in
measurement land, okay? You're in the place where this thing becomes God and it doesn't really exist.
It's just a theory. It's just like that weird God over here on the other side that's supposed to
hate and despise you. Not any more than your own mind does. I mean, there is a sort of a God,
there must be something, you know, there are orders of intelligence that are unified. Let's just
say that and doesn't stop with us. So we're done. That's the end of that comment. What that means
is wide open to speculation. Let's just be really clear. Religion is about the idea that there is
an order of intelligence above mankind. It's that simple. That's all there is. So you either have
to say, I absolutely don't believe there could be an order of intelligence above mankind, or you
have to say that the arguments about religion are about something that people are confused about
because all it really is is that there's other intelligence and ours is probably in relation
with it. Let's face it, we're buried in it on earth. I think we're in relation with other
intelligences, okay? So both sides of this argument can just calm down because these people have a
measuring stick as a God and they're saying these people are crazy. I'm sorry. These people are both
nuts out of their minds, okay? There's no such thing as a hypothetical measuring stick that
applies to all things. That normalization means you can't see my face. It's fading away in the
digitization. Watch, I can make it fade more just by moving. Now, if you were here with me,
we wouldn't be having this problem. See how my face is just fading away in the normalization.
When we talk on cell phones, they normalize our voices. They re-digitize what you say.
They're shaving off the music, the living music. They produce artifacts. The same thing happens in
concepts like tree, love, hand, eye, time. Shaving off, right? This is making, this is enslaving.
This is making us into little objects, square like things that can be manipulated,
exchanged as value. While we and our ecosystems, which are actually the only thing we have that
make us human and alive and intelligent, they lift us up on their backs. While we and the
ecosystems are being burned down. Information and metrics. Essentially a kind of a demonic
technological projection, right? Again, it's bad. The thing about technology is as long as we're
intelligently using and interacting with it, we are not. It's a God, unmanaged God, purely free
over us right now. And it's building people and subcultures in its image, which are all false,
they're corporations. In a corporation, you have a falsified role made of measurements,
you can't be human. And then you have to come back across that divide over into the land where
you're supposed to be human. How do you do that? You see what's happening in my face here and just
