Hi, thanks for joining me. My name is Darren Stevenson, probably watching my YouTube channel.
You can find me on Facebook in San Francisco under that name.
I also can be found at wondercloud.wordpress.com, organelle.org,
and a few other places around the web, including VinnyCite Medium.
I am an intelligence artist, or I like to think of myself that way, and what that means is
I play with intelligence to produce it.
I'm the opposite of an analyst. I want to make intelligence rather than analyze it.
And there's something that's been bothering me a lot today.
As I'm learning more about the idea of stars into worlds and how this metaphor,
just a metaphor, it's a model, but it's a very interesting model,
applies to lots of different kinds of behavior.
The behavior, for example, of dogs.
If you see dogs running around, you can tell which ones are sort of leaders,
because they will tend to meet face to face, and oftentimes this will involve conflict very rapidly.
Other dogs who aren't leaders will approach from the sides or the rear,
and these will be understood as orbitals.
In our culture, what we have are phony stars.
These would be politicians, rock stars, actors, people who have very elite roles in our culture,
but are not actually good people.
They're just very good phony people.
These stars in our culture get huge amounts of acclaim, and they also get something none of us get.
They get to play roles rather than jobs.
They have roles.
And like a child, they can play many different roles because they have escaped to some degree, to a small degree.
They've escaped the prison of poverty and slavery to the idea that you just have a job,
that you are just a consumer, that you are just a spectator, that you are just a prisoner,
that you are a data point, that you are there to sell product to.
Now the interesting thing about this last one is, lots of interesting things about it,
but one of the things I like best is how would someone who has never met you be able to recommend things for you
unless they were uncommonly intelligent, sensitive, or human?
How can people who live in job-based roles that circumscribe their ability to be anything
so that fake collectives of people can make a profit?
How can that person be human?
It's hard. They can be human to a degree within the constricted role they are given,
such as therapist, doctor, lawyer, politician.
But we actually expect them to be inhuman in the way that the roles that we have painted upon them demand.
And this is weird, so we just get this straight.
We go by the millions to theaters to watch actors play out roles we can't have.
And we pay millions of dollars for that every month, but we don't get roles.
Now our children won't put up with that, they just won't.
They'll just say no.
They'll play out roles by themselves even if we don't let them.
They absolutely insist on having roles.
And not just one, but like changing fluid, learning, growing superheroes, super villain, criminal, police,
every kind of role, right?
We get nothing.
Once you reach adulthood, your roles are basically entertainer or spectator.
The entertainers get to play false roles, and the spectators get to what?
Live vicariously and pay for that privilege?
What happened to their roles?
What happened to our ability to play roles?
Why do we have millions of role-playing games, but no roles in our culture?
Why do we have highly sophisticated false collectives that dehumanize us to process us into fake humans
that will then communicate and sort of torture the real humans with all of that stuff?
Why do we do all of that?
I mean, don't we want real roles?
Don't we want to have like a leader and a brain person and a brawn person and a sensitive person
and kind of a little crazy but very creative person all together for each other?
Together because they care about the same things and want to lift each other up rather than to lift a fake person?
A really expert fake to the top?
And then pay them madly.
Like a CEO, a doctor, a lawyer, a politician, a rock star, a movie star.
Not that these people aren't good people, okay?
We don't know anything about that.
We know that in their roles they can be a real problem for everybody because they hold up a standard that's a lie
and everyone looks up to that standard and tries to sort of rise to fakeness?
How do you rise to phoniness?
Is that even possible?
Well, it seems to be possible because we do it madly and we override all kinds of originality, authenticity,
sensitivity, humanity, relationality, perspective, purpose.
We just run that stuff over to have this.
Weird, huh?
So here's the thing I want to mention.
A star has orbitals and those orbitals have roles and if they don't, that's a fake star.
That's simple.
You know those things they call archangels?
Those are actually the orbitals of a star.
And our star has at least nine major orbitals, nine.
It's an interesting number.
And it's dragging those orbitals through space and all these little patterns that are really sophisticated and almost like a symphony.
And every one of those little bodies has a role.
They're not spectators, see?
Look at Earth.
Does that look like a spectator to you?
That's a serious, serious thing.
That's billions of years of bioconcentrated relational biocognition following that star through space.
See, that's a role.
That's not a spectator.
And what we have instead are fans.
It's really interesting because a fan is actually the radiant, the false radiance of a star.
It's like that fan that we fan ourselves with, right?
All those rays.
So in a sense, the planets, excuse me, are the fans of Saul, our star, but they have roles.
And those roles change the star, which changes their role, and they change roles as they're going through life.
So humans can do that too.
We can form these things a little bit like a dolphin pod, right?
We have changing roles.
Sometimes someone's leading, sometimes another one's leading.
Sometimes the intelligent person, sometimes the brawny person.
Sometimes the quiet one, sometimes the one.
