Our common relationships with language and thought, culture and expectation
incline us to rather peculiarly disabled modes of questioning.
And the seven question words, why, what, which, when, where, how and who
are profound opportunities.
If we can understand the breadth of the purchase they give us
and the dangerous narrowness they can deliver when we're unaware of their
peculiar properties.
I'll give you a few examples that I find interesting.
People are often trying to figure out what it is that's going on.
What is this?
What's happening?
And of course, these questions come from a usually unstated sort of subtle concern
or motive.
In other words, we want to find out if something we think is happening might be
happening here or something we've heard can happen.
There are some peculiar languages unimaginably deceptive and it's not
really like what we are like.
It's not like what things are like.
It's not like what time space is like.
It's not much like the world.
It's not like being.
It's a bit like a peculiar overlay into which we can depart being and build
little representations and stories and inscriptions and theories and mathematics
and science and things.
But it's uninhabitable.
You can't live in that overlay.
Being doesn't happen in there.
It can be incredibly deceptive.
When we think about what something is or what's going on, this particular question
word, we were going to naturally invoke, meaning partially inherit and partially
create categorical boundaries.
And then within those, we can triangulate identity and derive identity.
Oh, it's a this.
Oh, that's what happened.
Yet, of course, any derivative we come up with is going to be astonishingly
incomplete.
In fact, the process is going to throw away 99% of things, approaches we could take
to deriving identity to produce the kind of derivation we are looking for.
The kind of derivation we are motivated to seek or find or discover.
So when we trust these, it's very deceptive.
And especially if we can say that the derivations are factual.
Now they seem to have an objective universal authority.
And this can deceive us even further because if we were relating without the
representation overlay, we would have a sense of, how should I put it, almost
unconscious natural being in relation, just eating food, but no idea of eating
or even an idea of food, no ideas.
But once we have the representation overlay, now we're going to relate from
experience into the overlay.
And then that will very much change our perspective, then back into experience,
then back into the overlay.
And we'll be weaving this process so that we're trying to sort of compromise
between embodied, nonverbal experience and representations, norms, standards,
metrics, ideas, words, things like this.
So obviously, although this, we call this little thing is actually a seed from a tree,
we call this a seed.
But anyone who's carefully thought about it realizes that whatever this might be,
it has nothing to do with the word seed or any of those ideas.
Those are derivations of rather generally conserved histories of relation
with these kinds of things.
What this is can't be answered definitively.
Because every time someone asks, or any time we pursue that question,
we're going to have a unique set of situations and motives involved in producing
the categories by which we will evaluate this thing, at the very least.
Language is a peculiar kind of agreement to use a structured system of codes
to refer to primarily categorically things,
being relationships, identities, and stuff like this.
So that I can say tree and you can have some idea of what I'm talking about.
But that word doesn't contain anything about really the tree, a tree, an actual tree,
or having a relationship with a tree, right?
Like a personal, but an actual tree that I know or eat fruit from or have eaten fruit from.
And even here I'm making language, right?
So I'm still in the overlay.
So the tokens that we use to refer to things and to decide what they are,
are kind of a, I should put this, they're a prosthesis.
They're sets of prostheses that allow us to navigate and rearrange structures
in a representational overlay that we can compare with reality.
And we're supposed to try to not just update the overlay,
but updates our methods that produce overlays, right?
We're supposed to have a meta update, you know, like an operating system update
rather than just getting into that, for example.
But we aren't very good at that as a species so far.
We're actually trapped in really wildly complex spirals of conservations
from other cultures and histories and languages so that we'd have to struggle wildly
to catch up to our actual ability to just be intelligent in the moment
because we're dragging all of these ideas about what's going on.
And they're associated with words and theories and such, descriptions, stories, narratives.
One of the funny things is if we try to make a really simple, clear answer,
an almost childlike answer of, so that we can get some orientation,
now I'm coming back to a little lost thread in my mind here.
When we ask what is going on, someone's asking.
And often we pretend that that someone is in everyone.
This is common in our thought and relationships with language.
Rather than me or an actual person in an actual situation who's actually asking.
So we ask a lot of these kind of theoretical questions that are even being asked by theoretical people.
If we try to say something really true and simple about what's going on,
it becomes rather difficult.
And some of the answers are surprising.
And one of the reasons that language is so deceptive,
and one of the reasons why both religion and science are so incredibly important in human history
and will always remain this way, I think,
