is we don't have any idea what the context is.
We don't know what the sky means.
We don't, most of us, unless we're religious or scientific,
because religion is a way of saying what everything is, what everything is about.
It's what I call a uniform.
It's a way to say all of this is for, thus and such.
And science is the representational result of the removal,
the sort of abstraction of that into a much more universal, right?
We'll all agree that one plus one equals two, fire is hot.
Whether we believe that the universe is a beautiful garden filled with living minds and children,
or whether we believe it's the creation of a deity or an array of deities,
whether we believe it's an illusory, dream-like environment,
no matter what we think the world is about, the universe is about, and it's for.
We have these highly exact and extremely abstract prostheses,
science, particularly mathematics, that give us real purchase on some of the mechanics
that can be agreed universally, should probably be agreed universally,
in a limited domain of authoritative purchase on the nature of things.
So that the fact that we've discovered some astonishing facts in mathematics
doesn't really help us to understand what's this about.
So I think it's important to notice that we're missing a context, right?
We've either got one that was inherited from very poorly understood religions,
or we've assembled maybe a kind of a pet version, a personal patchwork quilt of what this is, what's going on,
why we're here, what this is for, why we're born, living, die, if there's any schema,
if there's any meta-picture of that, of which we are instances, what is that like, what's that about?
Or we might just not know, and you don't have to know,
although if you don't know, then your tokens are missing a domain of origin.
What do they link to?
They just kind of stand alone in free space if you don't know what's going on.
So we've got a problem as human beings in modern cultures in that we don't have any idea really what's going on,
or we have millions of the brethren coherent and poorly formed ideas.
And there's some way to find out, by the way, what's going on.
If you're a human being, you can go directly to nature, inquiring person,
sort of leave the cultural and linguistic ideas behind,
and just go ask with your being of the sky.
For in a sense, in a very real sense, you are both a product of time-space
and also an expression of its very face and spirit,
and a child and a companion in many ways.
So no matter what I might blather on or what you might hear about from anyone,
you are personally endowed with the capacity to go and inquire in person.
And I encourage you to do that with the deepest kind of sincerity and sobriety.
Nature will answer, the sky will answer, if you ask, with a coherent, sincere sense.
So to get back to what I was meandering toward,
if you want to get a really simple answer to what's going on around here,
the simplest kind of one is that whatever time-space is,
this around here, all the stuff we see here, animals and eyes and living minds and things,
these are like the flora and fauna in the garden of time-space.
Time-space is all around the earth.
There's this little garden floating in that stuff,
and all the little things that are being expressed here
that often are incredibly amazingly beautiful and astonishing,
little insects and animals and all the relationships.
As if they came from other worlds, they did.
They came from time-space.
So if the creatures here look like that, it looks like an alien.
That's because we're all aliens.
Earth is a planet in time-space.
Living things come from planets in time-space.
That's what we got here.
So we have here an astonishing what's going on
that is even, in a sense, an expression of all possible worlds in time-space.
This unique one.
Just like you are an expression of all possible people on earth.
It's an expression of all possible worlds in time-space.
And so it has all of the characters, profound, shocking beauty,
endless novelty of a medium which emerges.
So one of the answers is, what's going on around here?
Well, whatever time-space is, this is like that too.
This is that same kind of thing.
But one of the really simple, and you don't have to know anything about time-space,
although I think the ancestors probably thought of it more like an ocean.
So that if you were looking at the horizon of the ocean,
that just went right up into the sky.
And they were the same thing.
The ocean was the sky having come down like in a curve onto the earth.
So it seemed like the same stuff.
If you went far enough on the ocean, you'd go right up into the sky.
It wouldn't be necessarily that you'd fall off the earth into the sky, I don't think.
Right? The way we tend to think of it, because we're planer.
But one of the simplest things to understand or think about,
about what's going on around here is very surprising and unexpected.
And when you try to say really true things that are simple,
it's funny what often comes out.
If I wanted to say something that I really had faith in right now,
I could say I am making mouth noises.
That was true while I was saying it.
But to get back to my point, what's going on around here
is there's one really surprising answer that I don't think most of us would ever consider.
And it's momentous because it answers every question.
Every possible question.
The sun.
The sun is going on around here.
Everything on earth.
Our minds, our languages, our sciences, our religions.
All these things are expressions of the sun in a very obvious, obvious way.
Take the sun away.
All that stuff just disappears.
It's gone.
All of human history is gone.
All of life, all of thought, all of conjecture.
There's no time because as far as we know there are no beings anymore.
