So when we want to ask like what's going on around here,
well we're going around what's going on around here.
Or even more peculiar in a more interesting way of thinking,
there's nothing else going on around here.
So all that is going on around here is the sun.
This is the sun.
This world is the sun.
I am the sun.
Everything here is the sun.
It's just a matter of where you draw the line, right?
Do you draw it at the photosphere?
Do you draw it at the boundary of the solar formation of the interstellar medium, right?
The bubble that the sun kind of makes in interstellar space.
Somewhat like the membrane of a cell maybe.
Not that I'm making that comparison.
So if we do that then everything inside there is the sun.
You are the sun.
My voice is the sun.
Nothing around here is in the sun.
What's going on around here?
The sun.
And we don't usually think this way because it doesn't seem necessarily pragmatically useful or theoretically powerful.
And yet there are some very, very important reasons to be deeply aware of this.
Whether or not we intend to have a metaphysical or spiritual aspect to such thoughts.
Because if we don't recognize what I'll call complex language, maranimic origin,
that my hand is an extension of my body.
And there is a little gap in here, my wrist.
But it's covered with flesh.
Well the difference between we are maranimic, this world is a maranimic extension of time space.
Our solar system is like this hand, right?
Time space has a galaxy.
Galaxies have solar systems.
So solar systems have planets, planets have living beings on them.
So there's this maranimic link of origin.
And we're inclined because of language to think the distance means separation.
But a distance can mean a new way of being unified.
And in our case it does.
Everything around here is the sun.
So when we start to realize this, really understand, oh goodness, that person is the sun.
All these beings are like hairs, right?
On an organ that's a direct expression of solar history in a moment.
We start to realize this.
We realize that whatever the sun is, it doesn't fit in our categories.
It certainly isn't a thing.
You don't get things.
You don't get categories without that.
You don't get minds.
So what is the category to which that thing belongs?
All minds that invent categories descend from that.
All beings descend from that around here.
All this matter around here was basically collected and kind of shaped and made into little spinning, we think, you know, stuff by that thing.
But it's not a thing.
And if beings are one of the things that are derived from it, right?
The way that ideas or descriptions are derived from experience, maybe, that kind of derivation process.
If we're just derivations of that, like the hairs on my hand, right?
Isn't that a God?
What else?
There's certainly no other category we have that I'm aware of in English that could possibly point to anything, even vaguely similar to what I think is very obviously true.
So I encourage you when you see the sun to sustain some questions and perhaps even further to seek contact.
For the sky is something you're an expression of in a way not too dissimilar to how my hand is an expression of my body.
The seeming distinctions of size and distance are deceptive.
So what's going on around here?
Let's find out more and more because it's a lot more fascinating, shocking, strange and brilliant than even our wildest fantasies and religions and sciences.
I look forward to discovering more together.
Thank you for joining me.
Bye for now.
