imagine and celebrate this wildly as though this is the onset of our coming divinity. Again,
totally mindless left hemisphere nightmare unguided completely by life and relation.
The seventh item on my list would be war and especially the possibility of nuclear war. We
spend unthinkable amounts of resources and time on blowing things up and poisoning each other,
killing things for no really good reason. I'm going to just step back for one second because
that object proliferation problem, it actually leads to war and it's unthinkable that we dump
our evolutionary momentum which we could be using to become more and more intelligent,
more and more connected with nature to actually be the sort of evolutionary hero of our world
which the purposive intelligence of the planet generates beings like us for a reason.
Remember, I talked about how Earth is one being, how there's an intelligent system here and it
doesn't have a purpose but it's purposive. Well, we are the purposive hero of the entire ecological
system and we've gone insane and we're burning it down. So one of the reasons we're burning it down
is that we're madly in love with objects and machines and we actually fight wars and build
nuclear weapons over ideas, ideologies that are the produce of our completely unintelligent back
up the first thing, wrong-minded fictional collectives back down to the second thing.
See how all these things are related and they lead to each other and it's kind of a cascade.
So we've got this terrifying object proliferation. No one's paying any attention to that. They're
worried about how many people there are. It's worth worrying about how many people there are.
But have you ever heard anyone say that there are way too many automobiles or way too many computers
or way billions of too many little chotchkes and junk that no one needs, that the only reason
we are able to survive making these is that the planet can still absorb the environmental shock
that's produced every time we do that? So the seventh item on my list is war and nuclear,
the possibility of nuclear war. Oh, by the way, it's not a possibility. We've had a nuclear war,
okay? Since 1940, 2100 nuclear explosions. I would classify that as a nuclear war, wouldn't you?
Well, no one did. It's not funny. No one mentioned that we had a full-scale nuclear war on earth.
No one even noticed. We just overlooked that fact. Left hemisphere dominance, uninterruptible by
evidence, doesn't even care, right? It's not even looking for evidence. It's so narrowly focused
that it misses everything that's important and just kind of goes on with its little, you know,
mad scientist kind of plan. The eighth item on my list of 10 would probably be disease for human
beings, right? For human beings, which are actually the most terrible problem on the planet as far
as everything else is concerned, we are the disease as far as the living systems and the ecosystems
are concerned. We're just wiping them out and we're unstoppable and we just proliferate madly
and we've infected every single aspect of nature that we can possibly get, you know, anywhere near.
But for us, the eighth item is infectious diseases. We're sort of breeding them, in a sense,
and we are not only breeding them, we're advancing them very quickly by acting in incredibly stupid
ways in how we react and deal with them. The ninth problem for us is what's left after all of this.
You know, we're running out of water. We're damaging the most precious resources on earth.
We're destroying the water, the atmosphere, and land. And then I would say maybe 10th on this list.
And again, these are problems for us, right? Not just for, mostly just for humans, right? Not for
life on earth. For life on earth, we are the number one problem. There's no doubt about that at all.
We're much, much more deadly than an incoming projectile from space, which we're incredibly
frightened of. And by the way, earth may have produced us in part so that there would be an
animal capable of interfering with giant projectiles from space that can wipe out everything on earth
and wipe out the whole history of life on earth. We've become that projectile because we're so ignorant
and we're so left hemisphere driven and we're uninterruptible by actual intelligence.
So for us, the 10th problem, which we're all, everyone's really terrified about this climate
change thing. It's mostly an economic problem, okay? It's gonna cause a lot of trouble for human
beings around the world, but it's nothing compared to the fact that we're not yet
intelligent and we don't care. So we're confused about all of these things. And if you look at my
10 problem list, which basically goes, unintelligent collectives, the wrong model of civilization,
unguided physical, excuse me, unguided fictionals, unguided fictional collectives, like our
governments and corporations and things like that, that were on the sidle, we attack everything as
number three. Four would be pollution and we polluted everything. Five would be object proliferation
and also population growth. Six would be war and nuclear power. Seven would be disease.
Eight would be that we destroy the water and the land and the forests. I guess actually nine
would be climate change. I have my list misnumbered here. And what might be 10?
10 would be that when we do manage to notice that there's a problem, we get the wrong idea
about what it actually is. And so I'll give you some examples of that. One of the things you'll see
humans doing in our very unintelligent cultures is they'll recognize there's some kind of a problem,
but they'll get it wrong and they'll actually invent bizarre conspiracy explanations.
Millions of them, like from chemtrails and their hiding alien technology and the government has
this sort or that sort of conspiracy. And there's like millions of people who have these sort of
bizarre or you know the 2012 Mayans are coming, the Pleidians from outer space or whatever,
the alien abduction phenomenon, all these kinds of myriad conspiracy theories and there are thousands
of them. I'm just naming like a few off the top of my head. These are actually the result of the
right hemisphere getting the idea that there's something wrong, right? Because it can sense
it's an anomaly detector. It's brilliant. It's sensing when something's out of whack. The problem
is it has a very difficult time reaching consciousness and correcting it in and it has an even more
difficult time in collectives where it doesn't really exist, right? The collectives don't have a
right hemisphere. We do. So we have the chance to sort of correct ourselves when we notice that we're
wrong. If I tell myself, you know, I'm the most intelligent person in the world, my right hemisphere
is going to go like, uh, hold on a second guy, I can name like 15 ways in which you're not very
intelligent. So maybe you're making a mistake and you're like, oh yeah, right? Or if I'm about
to make a turn and my right hemisphere realizes that I've miscalculated, it's going to slow me down
and it's going to basically guide me through that turn. So I'm going to destroy myself. Okay.
But in our collectives, there's none of that. And the chance for us to correct them is basically
almost zero because by the, they're running so fast ahead of our capacity to correct them
that by the time we get anywhere near a correction, all the damage is normally done. It's been done
10 times overdone and redone again. So the 10th item on my list is that when we notice there's
a problem, we get the wrong idea about what it is. Um, and we get very excited about these
wrong ideas and we form religions of sort of conspiracy and wrong minded thought
that won't help us to interrupt the collectives. So now what do we do about all this? Okay. So
I've, I've, I've kind of outlined the problems. What are the answers? Well, the first thing is
we just need to recognize some of the things that I've talked about here because we don't
really do that. We don't realize if you don't realize you're not intelligent, you're not about
to become intelligent. That's for sure. If you absolutely think that you're successful in intelligence
and amazing and all of that, the chances of, which of course left hemisphere always thinks
that no matter what it's doing, just thinks that automatically. If you think that you're not going
to have a chance to be any different. If you think that climate change is the worst problem that we're
facing or that the war between science and religion is the worst problem that we're facing,
we're going to generate all kinds of attention and activity that does nothing except worsen the
problem. If you have no way to get any kind of intelligent grasp on the purpose of nature of
intelligence, the ecological necessities of life on earth, right? The relational nature of
intelligence and the contextual nature, the intellectual and the philosophical natures
are also important, but these, these others that we're ignoring objectively are really the basis.
So once we begin to see just as individuals first, and then we can begin to inform our
collectives much more intelligently, but these problems are going on, we've got a real shot
of changing them. Now, the other thing is we need to understand that the collectives move at a pace
that is extremely rapid compared to our ordinary ability to detect the anomalies and correct them.
And also, they're methods of intelligence, most of our collectives, incredibly narrow.
