and things like this, where you get basically savant like abilities with language, math and
pattern recognition, but almost no abilities with empathy and relation. This is very important in
the discussion we're about to have because almost all of the problems that we're dealing with on
earth come from a very small number of situations that we could actually address pretty rapidly
if we understood their sources. Now, a lot of the times we're sitting around arguing about
whose fault something is and we think it's like these people's fault or those people's fault.
It's the fault of religion. It's, it's the fault of the terrorists. It's the fault of
some corporation, right? It's the fault of a government. It's the fault of criminals. Yeah,
and almost all of these arguments are just dead wrong because they're not paying attention to a
basic fact. Our species is not yet intelligent. We are not an intelligent species. There's no
way you can have a species that just wipes out everything, spends most of its evolutionary
momentum on building machines and destroying each other, poisoning the environment, wiping out
anciently conserved ecosystems, and running around calling itself a heroic god of progress.
There's just, that's not, that's not even slightly intelligent. In fact, we're the least intelligent
animal on the planet, but we're certain effectively that we're gods of intelligence. And every time
we build a new machine, we jump up and down and have a big celebration about how much more intelligent
we become. This is completely insane, but one of the things that's really interesting about the form
of insanity that we're talking about is it's absolutely the left hemisphere, right? And it's,
it's totally divided from the capacity to be corrected by the anomaly detection of the right
hemisphere. And this is crucially important. Let me explain how this works. So essentially,
we build collectives, yeah? And what tends to happen is that the left hemispheric aspects
of human thought rise to the fore in our collectives and organize them according to rules in books,
right? Descriptions we write down, models of things, arguments, okay? And so we, in legal
fictions, right? Actually fictional legal ideas. So we, we, we sort of build our collectives based
on these very left hemispheric ideas. And then we kind of just let them run crazy in the world.
And often we sort of know that there's going to be a problem ahead of time. If you listen to, for
example, the founders of the United States, you can see that they're aware of various kinds of
problems that they've seen vastly dominating them in their previous experience of being nations and
making collectives. And they're trying desperately to avoid them by building a system. Again, a system
is very left hemisphere that will protect certain aspects that allow a kind of a right hemispheric
interruption. Ordinarily, those just fail. So let me talk a little bit more about
what the current problems are and what their sources are.
The first problem is our collectives are essentially left hemispheric dominated
projections, right? They're projections of left hemisphere like
ways of being in the world and ways of thinking. And the thing that's really terrifying about this
is that the focus of the left hemisphere is so narrow, incredibly narrow, and so
often completely unaware of context, history, purposive intelligence, relational intelligence,
actual intellectual intelligence, philosophical intelligence, all the various forms that we
have. And there's thousands of forms we have no names for because normally we're just sort of
thinking of intelligence like IQ. How well can you do on a test, which has nothing to do with
intelligence, okay? It's a very narrow idea of intelligence. And so most of the left hemisphere's
ideas about what it means to be intelligent or successful are insanely narrow. And they're
throwing away more than 99% of reality. And they're focusing on just one little tiny, tiny piece,
which they can pretend produces wild success if you do it a certain way. This is basically the
model of profit, okay? So profit means you go somewhere and you cause unthinkable damage to
billions of forms of life and the future and human history. And then you go somewhere else
where that damage is kind of isn't seen. And you produce like some trinket, okay? That you then
sell and it only costs you, you know, 10 cents to produce because you're able to just wipe out
nature wholesale to do that. And nobody got to see that it's all hidden somewhere. And then you
come back with this little trinket and you sell it for, you know, $10 and you make a thousand percent
of profit. And this is a wild success. Or for example, you build automobiles, yeah? And you just
keep building automobiles. And until every single human has like one or two or three or seven of
them. And these are the single most ridiculously expensive machines in terms of purposive
intelligence gets burned down, relational intelligence gets burned down, wipes out the
ecologies. We fight wars to produce resources for machines. Machines get more care than humans.
They have more rights than humans. They own terrain all over the place that we will never
have any kind of access to. And we're essentially competing against a giant mechanical virus that
actually surrounds and is just flowing through our cities. And we think that this is some kind of
advancement or success when actually it's suicidal, it's wiping us out. We don't even notice
that we're competing with machines. I mean, our car, we have to pay insurance for our cars, right?
And so we also have to pay insurance to get health care after we pay taxes to fight wars. So we'll
spend like trillions of dollars to go kill people and radiate other countries in the Middle East,
right? And we get no education, no health care. Then we have to pay insurance to protect,
apparently to protect people from legal fictions in case problems happen while driving cars.
And then on top of that, we have to pay more insurance for the opportunity to possibly get
something like very poor health care. And we're working all the time, all our lives,
to basically support these nightmarish ideas that are wiping everything out and destroying us.
And every time we have to pay, we have to pay a new, we have to pay again to pay again, essentially.
And this is sort of how it is in the United States. It's not the same in every single culture
or country. But in most of the Western countries, what you've got are massively oriented, left
hemispherically driven collectives, right? And unlike human beings, there's no correction, right?
There's no connection with life. There's no connection with ecology, the history of life on
Earth, the future of life on Earth, the meaning of what it means to be alive, a real model of
evolution. What we've got is a very left hemisphere model. Not that science is wrong, okay? They're
right about the tiny, tiny piece of evolution that they understand in a way. But their interpretations
are wildly ridiculous, right? The idea that it's competition, it's insane. It's true in a very
narrow sense in the extremely narrow context that, again, they've established for us to examine it
in. Yes, basically, it's true there. But even in there, it's kind of a poor argument and a very
poor interpretation of the idea. And that, again, drives our cultures because now we think, oh,
evolution is actually about competition. So the goal is to win, right? For some individual, which
of course, there's really only one planet here. There's sort of one giant animal, one giant
intelligence distributed into billions of diverse forms that interact together in ways that produce
forms of benefit we didn't have language for, okay? Because all we were really thinking about
is how do you get more advanced forms? Or how do you get, like, where did we come from, for example?
And I mean, one of the questions we failed to ask completely is, the living planet doesn't have
a purpose, okay? Nature doesn't have a purpose. Nature is purposive, right? Or trans-purposive.
What I mean by that is, nature is sort of like an explosively diverse, unthinkably rare and profound
garden that just generates billions of possible purposive directions for life to experiment and
grow and develop in, yeah? And we burn all that down and turn it into function in machines. And
there are people, of course, who actually think that functions all there is, right? That you're
just a function, your brain is just a machine. Really, there are actually people who want us to
believe that the universe itself is a simulation in a computer. Unfortunately, the left hemisphere
does this all the time, right? It creates a functional metaphor, a model, and it just says,
like, everything is that. It is that thing. It's just a machine, which is, you know,
it's not that the idea that we can view organisms from a perspective that's mechanical is ridiculous.
Of course, we can do that. But the idea that organisms are machines, that's completely insane.
That is nothing to do with it. That's like saying you're a cartoon. So the main problem that we have
is that all of our collectives, and I basically mean every single one, religion, science, government,
corporations, all of our legal systems, they're completely left hemispheric. They're dominated
by absolute fictions that are just made up models that everyone's worshiping as if they're gods,
