We need to broaden those dramatically into, that involve a lot of different data,
a lot of different perspectives, a lot of different forms of intelligence instead of like,
how many machines can we build and sell this year? Which is the wrong thing to be thinking about.
So once we can recognize and reorder what the problems are that we're facing and understand
some of the really important bases of these problems where they come from, and they come from
the same place throughout all of human history, right? Once we begin to understand these things,
we've got a real shot of changing them. We need to educate ourselves about the nature of our
relationships with ecology. Human beings so far, we have no idea what life on earth is, no one knows
what an organism is. And let me explain something very briefly. A single organism is worth more than
all the machines will ever produce. We're completely deluded about the value and the meaning and the
essential intelligence of nature. It's so far beyond everything we think that the wildest stories
we can make up don't come anywhere near it. You're talking about an evolutionary crystal.
Earth is like a little crystal of living evolution. That's probably a million factors
the relational age of the universe. It's a little intelligence amplifier. It synthesizes new forms
of relational contextual purpose of intelligence, billions of times per second. It makes a form
of time we don't even have words about. And we're burning that down to make little chotskies and
key rings and stuff like this. So we've completely got the wrong idea about nature. We've got to
correct that immediately. And by learning about these things, we can begin to discover what the
potentials of human intelligence actually are when the incredibly quiet but unthinkably profound
intelligence of the right hemisphere begins to be included, respected and acknowledged and also
empowered not only in our collectives but in our lives together in our relationships and the way
that we learn and think and form ideas. Once this begins to happen, we've got a real shot at changing
these things, but let's be really serious. The number one problem is that our species is not
intelligent. Our civilizations are confounded on nonsense and there's no way presently to really
get a leash on those things and correct them. Science is not helping us do that by the way. So if you
see scientists running around playing hero, they are just as misguided as everybody else. They're
serving those collectives. They're building the technologies wildly, breeding them madly into
which we're dumping what would otherwise be unthinkable evolutionary momentum for our species,
for all of the aspects of our intelligence and our abilities. We're a weird creature. We can
actually dump our evolutionary momentum into building things so that we don't evolve, things
evolve, right? And that the ecosystems don't evolve, they die, but objects evolve madly,
everywhere we look. This is the most ignorant kind of possible position we could be in.
This is worse than an incoming projectile that's going to wipe out life on earth because we have
become the projectile, right? So by understanding these things together, by learning more about them,
by continuing this discussion and expanding and even correcting some of the things that I've
spoken about today, we've got a real shot at becoming something so amazing that none of the wildest
fictions of history give us any idea about it and the reason is this. We are the living vehicle
of the entire cache, the entire sort of system of intelligence on earth has been
concentrated and represented and embodied in us, right? And we've ignored, like out of a thousand
percent, we've ignored 999 percent of it and we focused on the one deadliest and craziest aspect
and built that up madly. If we just slow that down a little bit and begin to discover some of
what that other 999 percent is about, we're going to discover thousands of new ways of
growing and learning and being intelligent and sensing and relating together. Let me explain
something really simple. A person in a living ecosystem, all of those living beings are intelligence
assets. They're like a model, it's a bad model, but a model we could use like they're an internet,
they're a living internet that's a billion fold more intelligent than anything we can possibly
build. So a person inside an ecosystem is actually a living network of intelligences that we have
nothing that compares to that. What we've got is like this broken machine that sort of limps along
and sells us bad media that makes us more insane. We need to rediscover the the nature of nature
and our relationship with it and as we do that we're going to be really shocked to see that we're
more than science fiction, we're more than science, we're a billion fold more than any religion could
ever hope to describe. You're indescribably advanced but we're being basically made into
cartoons by the way that we're playing with our intelligence. Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to continuing to learn together and discover and explore our humanity
and to try and change some of these problems. We have a real shot at doing that as soon as we
can organize them in a way that makes sense and see what the real driving forces are.
I'll see you again soon. Bye bye for now.
