Hi, thank you for joining me. Today is Wednesday, February 12, 2014. It is 626 AM. My name is
Darren Stevenson. You're probably watching my YouTube channel. I can be found under that
name in San Francisco on Facebook. I also have a blog at wandercloud.wordpress.com and I run
a website called organelle.org. Today I'm going to be talking about some of the basic or most
serious problems facing civilization in mankind today. I'm also going to be talking about the
difference between what we pay attention to and what we might pay attention to if our
species were actually intelligent, which I'm going to claim it is not. There's a big difference
between the idea of intelligence and we seem to think that simply because we can represent things
in language and because we're capable of advanced representational technologies like
mathematics and because we are able to produce physical technologies that appear to us to be
very advanced that we are intelligent. Unfortunately, that's not true. What intelligence means really
is, by the way, I'm going to be competing a little bit with machines at the moment like most of us
are most of the time. When intelligence really means it depends a lot on why you're asking,
who's asking, where you're asking this question, and kind of what the context is. One of the
things that's peculiar about what we call human intelligence is that it often completely ignores
relational aspects, purposive aspects, and contextual aspects. Basically, it'll produce some kind of a
result, which it'll then dance around madly about as if it were a God thinking that it's
intelligent because the result looks sophisticated. That's not intelligence. Intelligence basically
has to do with living beings and relationships, preserving those relationships, understanding
them, interacting with them in ways that produce shocking benefits evolutionarily and in terms
of sustainability and in terms of like purpose and relation. It's the same thing in a human family
You can have the most intelligent person in the world. If they can't get along with you,
or if they burn your house down, it doesn't matter how intelligent they seem to be on testing.
What truly matters in intelligence is relation, awareness of context, and the meanings that we
derive from relationships and our awareness of context. Now, in these fields of measurement,
our species gets an F minus. We fail in every single domain. And I like to talk a little bit
about why that is. In a few of my recent videos, I've discussed the differences between the left
hemisphere model, sort of way of being in the world, and the right hemisphere way of being in
the world. And they're very, very different. By the way, my camera may be spinning things around.
This is my right side. My left hemisphere is right here, controls right side of my body. My right
hemisphere is here, largely controls the left side of my body. One of the interesting things
about these two hemispheres really briefly, just to recap, is that the right hemisphere believes
in both sides of the body, but it doesn't have much of a voice. Can't really talk much. It doesn't
seem to be actively involved in generating conscious content. For most people, there are
exceptions. The left hemisphere, on the other hand, is fully conscious, very language oriented,
very oriented towards descriptions, functions, models, things like this. It talks all the
time. In fact, it's very active while I'm talking right now. And it doesn't believe in the other
half of the body and sees it as a spooky kind of force or enemy that it would like to get rid of,
destroy, or just pretend doesn't exist. You can see how this works in science, where you have
people like Daniel Dennett, who would like you to believe that experience doesn't actually exist.
It's just a kind of an epiphenomenon or a side effect of the machinery of your brain, as if your
brain were a machine. It's just one of the most ridiculous ideas ever imagined by mankind. Now,
this is an example of how you can have something that looks incredibly sophisticated and appears to
have really sophisticated arguments. There's actually dumber than plastic shoes. The left
hemisphere has no way to check its own arguments. And it basically just sort of makes up a theory
and goes madly running forward without theory, completely uninterruptible when divorced from
the right hemisphere, and is incredibly dangerous because it actually, it doesn't care about living
things at all. It really, it doesn't even believe in them. What it does instead is it substitutes
words and tokens and models for them, and then makes arguments about those. And it sort of fights
those arguments against each other in courtroom like environments to decide which of them is the
most intelligent. Well, unfortunately, none of those are intelligent because they're not connected
to life on earth. They're not connected to actual relation. They're not connected to living beings.
Now, luckily for most of us, the left hemisphere and the right hemisphere are fairly well integrated.
And so what we get is the left hemisphere becomes very active while we're conscious while we're
using it in this way. And the right hemisphere interrupts and informs it when it goes crazy.
So that, for example, you're having fun riding your bike. You want to just keep going forward,
but you notice that there's a wall in front of you. So your right hemisphere basically warns you
like, wait, there's a problem. There's a wall in front of you. Essentially, the right hemisphere,
which is shockingly more intelligent than the left, I mean, the left has some very, very profound
features of structural intelligence. But the right hemisphere has features of intelligence
that are a billion fold more sophisticated. They're vastly older. They go back to the time
before there were brains, rather than being like a single kind of intelligence or a single model
or argument, the right hemisphere has probably billions of models that work together. So the
interesting thing about the right hemisphere is that it sort of detects anomalies. It can tell
when something's wrong. And so if you're like listening to an argument, and you suddenly notice
like, wait a minute, that doesn't fit. That's your right hemisphere kind of, or the right hemisphere
way of being in the world, interrupting the argument. Now, so for most of us, we have a bit of a,
you know, these are tempestures compete. And in our childhood, the left hemisphere sort of dominates
and crushes most of the right hemisphere's intelligence forms, which, by the way, were used
to acquire language. So before you even had language, you had this astonishing set of
intelligences that were capable of acquiring any kind of language and fitting you into any kind
of culture that you can possibly imagine. Those were right hemisphere assets. Once you get the
left hemisphere, dominating and crushing that and taking all of its momentum and using it to
produce models and arguments and da, da, da, da, da, da, you're sort of out of luck developmentally,
you're going to kind of stop developing there. And you'll keep developing your left hemisphere
assets, but your right hemisphere assets are going to be at least inhibited. They'll continue to
develop throughout your life. And in fact, when you fall asleep, this reverses, right? Your dreaming
is actually the functioning and the, how should we put it, the developmental processing of the
right hemisphere assets and them feeding back into the left. So it kind of, you know, we're awake,
right? And suddenly the left hemisphere is really very dominant for most of us when we're conscious.
And there are, you know, there are people who are living in the world in a more or less right
hemisphere way. And then we're asleep and the right hemisphere is kind of dominant.
Now, if the left hemisphere had its way, it just wouldn't let you go to sleep. It would just like
say, you know, when you go to sleep, a spooky ghost takes over the car and we'd like to throw that out
and just get rid of it. And one of the things that's interesting about this is we have a variety of
sort of phenomenon and mental illnesses and such that have a lot to do with left hemisphere over
dominance. One of them is schizophrenia. One of the, one of the other interesting phenomenon that
is a more or less social phenomenon is something we call alien abduction, right? And this is a
thing that often happens in people's bedrooms at night. There's also some other phenomenon
associated with this. During sleep paralysis, people often perceive like a strange evil presence
nearby, sort of hovering near the bed. Yeah, there are paintings of this and such. A lot of this,
now I'm not saying exactly that I know what this, what this is, but the idea of alien abduction is
very interesting because it really looks a lot like what would happen if the left hemisphere
sort of was able to invade the right hemisphere's dominance and then start sort of testing it to
try to find out like, how did the, how did we get ejected from the vehicle of the body overnight?
And, and of course, again, the funny thing is the left hemisphere doesn't believe in the,
in the half of the body that has the right hemisphere, so it doesn't want it to exist
when it's divorced from that. Now, of course, in some people you have extreme left hemisphere
dominance and you get really powerful modes of like pattern recognition, mathematics, language
use, but you get like no empathy, right? And we have names for various syndromes like Asperger's
