and they're uncorrectable. The methods of correcting them are so incredibly crude and slow
that by the time you even get the information you need to correct this rampaging monster,
everything's long ago was burned down, dead, tortured, imprisoned, crushed, turned into little
chotskies, or, you know, burned up for machine use. And this is actually the number one problem
our species is facing. And no one's paying attention to it, right? We're worried about things like
climate change, okay? So let me explain or delineate what I think are like the top 10
actual problems we're facing. The first number one problem is that we've got absolutely the wrong
idea of what it means to be human, to be a civilization, to build collectives at all.
We're completely confused about this, and all of our collectives are built on left hemispheric
models. So the number one problem is our species is not yet intelligent. We don't know this,
we think we're intelligent, we're madly forging ahead in 10,000 different domains in which we're
abjectly, omnisidally, we attack everything that moves, and most of what doesn't, we're omnisidal,
we're omnisidally stupid, and we're just raging ahead and sure of our own intelligence,
meanwhile, completely ignoring the fact that we're unconnected to anything like intelligence,
or life, or life on earth, or the history of life on earth, or human potential, or any of
these things. So the number one problem that faces our people is that we are not yet intelligent,
and we're not aware of this, okay? And all of our collectives are completely unguided,
and they're uncorrectable. So they're just like madly burning stuff down, and we're every once
in a while like complaining a little bit, or you know, we file a lawsuit or something, it has no
effect, right? You can't prosecute or stop a collective that's unguided, right? The people
don't have the power really to do it. And whenever they, and it takes like, you know, every hundred
years or so, there's some major moment where there's finally like some kind of a correction.
But by that time, you know, a long time ago, that was sustainable, because we weren't powerful enough
to just wipe out life on earth. Unfortunately, that's no longer true. One year, okay, one year of
earth going around the sun is seven billion human life years, all right? So we have no more time,
we ran out of time a long time ago, we didn't notice that we weren't intelligent, we didn't
notice that our collectives are insane, and we didn't notice that we've neglected to really
establish any way for there to be like, a correction that involves living beings, intimacy,
purposive intelligence, contextual intelligence, relational intelligence. And so we get a situation
where, for example, we'll burn down an acre of the anciently conserved rainforest for ten dollars,
okay? Now, what's the actual value of that anciently conserved acre of rainforest? Well,
it's unthinkable. The value of that acre of anciently conserved rainforest is, you know,
conservatively, it's worth a billion times more than every object we've ever produced,
including all of our knowledge methods, mathematics, science, religion, everything, okay? Because those
are representations, and compared to life, they don't have any value at all. And our species has
not yet recognized this somehow, right? Like, we recognize it as individuals in various ways,
and some of us are passionately recognizing this, yeah? And realizing this is completely insane,
we're wiping out the planet, meanwhile, we think we're the most intelligent thing that ever happened.
We're the least intelligent thing that ever happened. Any insect is more intelligent than our
entire species. For a simple reason, it's not on the sidle. It doesn't kill everything that moves,
it doesn't attack most of what doesn't move, right, the environment, it doesn't attack its own
intelligence, which we're doing madly every day, and it doesn't just keep doing that uninterruptively.
Even a machine would have a hard time succeeding at that. The only reason we've been able to survive
it is that Earth's been absorbing that damage, right? Billions of years of evolution on Earth
have been just taking these shocking blows of what the humans are doing over and over again,
just keeps going faster and faster and faster until it's like a sewing machine,
just wiping out life on Earth. That's the first most important problem. No one's paying attention
to it. So we're not intelligent yet is number one. We've got the wrong model of civilization.
Number two is all of our collectives are unguided fictions. They're models made of rule-based
laws and ideas and books and things, and largely they're uncorrectable. Try and correct, okay,
Christianity. I wish you luck. And we think science is sort of our great hero. Here's the thing,
they're doing most of what's wiping out life on Earth and they don't care. They're not noticing.
If they even mention it, it's sort of an afterthought. Not only that, most of science is
willing to just torture billions of living beings all day long for data, and I think that's a great
idea. They actually think like, this is how you get data. You kill and torture living beings in
little boxes and things, which is insane. Those living beings are our own bodies. They're not
like a luxury that exists separate from me or you. This is one planet. Whatever you do to nature is
done in you. If you're torturing some animal, you're being tortured because it's a living web.
It's not connected anymore than my hand is connected to my body. It's one unity,
first and foremost, you have to understand that. Secondarily, there's all these distinctions
that give us the chance to have evolutionary momentum and developmental potential that are
shockingly profound and let's you burn them down. Number one, unintelligent. Number two,
our fictional collectives are unguided. Number three, we're omnicidal. We kill everything in
sight. We attack our own intelligence, which makes us kill everything in sight faster and faster
and faster. Number three is pollution. We have poisoned every single domain of life on Earth.
Every mammalian body is currently containing all kinds of incredible toxins that destroy our
hormonal intelligence in our bodies, damage our DNA, and basically ruin the possibility of health,
not just for us, but every creature on Earth. If you just test their metabolism, you'll find that
they're all filled with industrial toxins, some of them with radiation. There's various kinds of
DNA damage going on. There's all kinds of metabolic damage and we're immersed in billions of forms
of noise that are wiping out all of the aspects of evolutionary development and intelligence
that took billions of years of life on Earth to develop. We're wiping that out. We're not even
aware of them. We're aware of two of them, but we've got transmission noise in all kinds of radio
frequencies we pay no attention to. We've got chemical noise in thousands of domains. We've
got pollution in every single aspect of the ecosystems on Earth and it's killing everything.
It's damaging the way that our own evolution learns what it's supposed to do in the coming
generations, what it's supposed to be and become, not supposed to and that there is a supposed to,
but meaning the genetic system essentially reads context and environment and it relates with that
in a very intelligent way that produces new opportunities from existing contexts.
So if you bury that in noise, what you get are monsters that are damaged and are born
diseased in various ways and are not connected to the environment, but they're connected to
things like expecting there to be lots of machines. We know for a fact that there are
factors that program, they structure our genetic development based on our relationships
in the world in this moment and the way that we're dealing with that is actually wiping out
evolution. It's wiping out our evolution and the evolution of all the anciently conserved
evolutionary partners that belong with us that are actually assets of our own intelligence we
haven't discovered yet. So we're just burning them down. It would be like if a child, if well
his mother was asleep, he anesthetized her and ripped out chunks of her body and then sold them
to drug dealers and people like prostitute or pimps and people who would sell him automobiles
and jewelry and things like this and then when she woke up he would just lie to her madly about
where her arm went last night and then he would drug her some more and just keep doing it. In fact,
these two people are one being. They need each other. This child who's doing this to his mother
is out of his mind. This is basically what's going on with human beings. So after that comes the
problem of object proliferation. We're really concerned about human population. I admit that's
a problem and it belongs somewhere on this list. Let's put it with number six. Let's say that the
two problems here that we only look at one of are human population growth which is a fairly
serious problem but it's way more serious when all of the environments are poisoned, all the water
is being used or poisoned in ridiculous ways, the air is poisoned, the relational environment is
poisoned, the intellectual environment is poisoned, the purposive environment is poisoned, all of the
aspects of our intelligence are poisoned and then we build every kind of object we can possibly
