And what that means is that conflict and combat only occur to better everyone. And anyone who
starts conflict or combat that doesn't better everyone because there's that purposive intelligence
with and for each other, all combat is only for that. Therefore, there's no more phony combat,
no more phony intelligence, no more fashion is going to have fake displays. You only have
authentic displays because we all live together, right? So without that, we can't be human. And with
that, we will be something that looks to us like superhuman. This is what the great prophets
of history were speaking of. The powers of our minds and hearts in a pod can raise the dead.
They can change the nation in a week. They can change the way we all, the world over,
work and think together. Because these little pods have something that we don't have to have,
which is they have true moral and ethical identity. And thus within them, we can have true moral and
ethical identity. Instead of stuff written down on paper like laws and things, we can have the
real stuff. And when you have that, you become empowered to be and do anything. It's not about
lies or religion, it's just about being together as human beings and animals. On a planet as astonishing
as ours. In the moment where we still exist with some hope of trying this, because our ecosystems
haven't been wiped out yet, and we haven't been completely converted into slaves, so one tiny
suggestion. Your friends aren't their ideas, okay? And we can learn together to use our disagreements
as powers to make us more intelligent every time we act. When we complain without solutions,
when we blame people or problems and frighten our neighbors without binding us closer together,
we're worsening those problems, whether they're ecological, economic, ideological, political,
emotional, whether they're based on gender, rights, what people have done or haven't done, we think.
All of these problems can be solved in ways that are so shockingly beautiful and powerful
that they will restore our humanity, our democracy, and our liberation. Our power to
liberate each other and live as human beings in the world. Or we can keep complaining, pretending
we're victims, that we're separate, that my idea and your idea are at war, right? That we're monsters
of conflict, and we're going to arm up with tough and scary language. We're going to frighten each
other to get attention. You know, the activist media has this much solution for the American people,
for the people of the world in general. They make, you know, flighty superficial arguments that
everyone can agree with or not agree with. That's useless. We need intelligent, connected dialogue
within for each other. From now on, if we reach for that and establish that as a standard, nothing
will hold us back. We will reestablish pot intelligence instead of the phony kind that
we're playing with. And we'll be able to take the ball from the people like Snowden and Assange
and the other leaders who are trying to show us another direction, and it's not a direction of
ideologies. It's a direction of discovery in unity. It's 2013, not 1932. Merry Christmas.
Thanks for joining me. You can find me on the web at organelle.org or wondercloud.wordpress.com.
That's wondercloud. All blessings to you and most to you, Thor. Bye for now. See you on the net.
