The effects of us just stopping doing all of that would be so profound that it would
change the entire context.
There's no way we can know what to do in that context, because under these effects, it will
never arise.
Justice doesn't look like putting the burden of confusion, social isolation, desperation,
poverty, illness, despair on the individual.
It certainly didn't start with them.
It's very difficult to see how they could be responsible for that.
Most children are born profoundly endowed to become incredibly exquisitely, provocatively
human.
Unlike fish and toxic water, they absorb the context and respond, and they signal rather
authentically about the nature of the environments and situations that pervade our common human
waking experience, which I have to admit is fairly unimaginably bizarre and conflicted.
No one can adjust well to a context that is as unspeakably peculiar as the modern moment
as an individual.
So an intelligent culture would both understand and account for, quote unquote, this matter
in every proceeding, and would develop a system capable of indicting itself when necessary,
and perhaps even oriented in this fashion, so that better and more true systems are produced,
whose goal is not punishment or even correction of the individual, but perhaps the intelligent
analysis of the problems that lead to these events and the social intelligence to modulate
how we are human together to resolve their sources.
If something makes a million fires and it just keeps making fires, putting those fires
in prison and paying every possible amount of money is not sane by any standard whatsoever.
There's no rational argument by which this works or is successful or adaptive, sustainable,
progressive, anything.
It just doesn't work.
You have to go to whatever is producing the fires and make the fires stop happening.
Since we suppose that the fires start in the individuals, absolutely cannot be the case
ever, really.
So like prosecuting and punishing them is the wrong idea to begin with, making that an overriding
imperative is insane.
The best thing we could do would be to stop that, because if we don't, we develop minds
compliant with those projections of humanity, morality, justice, mutuality, society, culture,
membership.
It is impossible to be human or intelligent under such a shadow.
It's certainly impossible to be together.
